The market is getting more discerning.
>> You're starting to see a bit of a
broadening. There's some durability
behind this. The technicals in the
equity market are extraordinary. [music]
The direction from here is really what's
the next positive surprise?
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowitz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, stocks bounce. President
Trump extending the ceasefire after
vowing not to. Tehran indicating
Washington might be ready to lift its
blockade just as elevated energy prices
are pushing [music] United Airlines to
cut its outlook, pushing Lufthansa to
slash 20,000 flights.
>> This is huge, Jonathan, in terms of the
crisis is now starting to become a
little bit more uncertain for companies
as they start to guide for the future
because right now we are in a state
[music] of basically paralysis, in
limbo. The ceasefire talks right now are
on hold. The president put out a
statement, but interesting to that
statement, he's waiting for the Iranian
response and he didn't give a deadline.
When has he not given a deadline?
>> Investors [music] want to make something
really complex very, very simple. There
is a path towards escalation. There is a
path towards de-escalation, and [music]
it appears, at least for now, the
president is committed to a path towards
de-escalation, and the market at the
moment is anchored [music] around that
idea. Yes, the the market is anchored
around that idea, but at the same time
on the ground, the Strait of Hormuz is
still [music] shut. And actually, what
is happening right now is you see some
headlines coming from Iran that not only
did they go after ships, they're now
starting to take some [music] take hold
of some of these ships. At the same
time, the Treasury Secretary yesterday
doubled down on Twitter and said, "We
are going to go after any sanctioned
crude, and we are going to go after all
of this oil." And that potentially means
we could see more tension in these
waters. [music]
>> This from the Treasury Secretary in the
last 24 hours. The United States Navy
will continue the blockade of Iranian
ports. [music] In a matter of days,
Kharg Island short storage will be full
and the fragile Iranian oil wells will
be shut in. The pressure [music]
continues to build.
>> continues to build on this regime,
especially economically. They are in
dire straits right now and although
about a month ago Treasury decided to
unsanction the Iranian crude at sea to
help some of their partners in Asia,
that is not happening anymore and
they're going after the ships like we
[music] saw happened over the weekend.
Does this mean potentially it is enough
to bring them to [music] the table?
Right now it doesn't look like it. We
mentioned the airlines, we'll be talking
about them all morning. Bram is going to
catch up with Scott [music] Kirby of
United Airlines later on this morning.
Look out for that around 9:15 Eastern
time. We're tracking the ripple effect,
the consequences, the fallout starting
in Asia, follow through into Europe.
20,000 flights canceled at Lufthansa.
You'd have to imagine a few other
airlines [music] aren't too far behind.
>> This morning also we heard from TUI and
what they have to do in terms of
basically suspending revenue guidance
for this [music] year because they don't
know how to guide, because they don't
know how much all this is going to cost,
because we do not have a resolution on
what is going [music] on in the Gulf.
>> Equity futures this morning just about
holding on to gains, we're positive here
by 0.5%.
Coming up this hour we'll catch up with
Aaron Kennon of ClearBridge Asset
Management with the equity rally looking
for to get back on track. Krishna Guha
of Evercore on Kevin Warsh's showdown on
Capitol Hill and Bank of America's
president of retail banking Holly
O'Neill as the consumer shows signs of
strength. We begin this hour with our
top story. President Trump extended the
ceasefire with Iran indefinitely.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's Jamila
Abid
Jamila, the president says leadership
there is fractured. How united is it
this morning?
Well, we haven't had an official
response yet from Iran vis-a-vis the
ceasefire announcement that President
Trump made yesterday. And I think it was
interesting that, you know, these
Islamabad talks we spent all of
yesterday speculating as to when they
were going to happen, when JD Vance was
going to leave the US.
But then we got no official confirmation
from the Iranian side that they were
going to attend. Uh, and what we do
know, if you piece together the various
commentary that have come through from
some of those key officials in the last
24 hours, the key sticking point from
their perspective is the ongoing US
naval blockade. And even when Trump made
that ceasefire announcement yesterday on
his Truth Social post, he also said and
reiterated that the naval blockade was
going to stay in place. And the only
comment that we can go from this
morning, overnight, is a post that the
Iranian foreign minister, Abbas Araqchi,
put up saying once again that blockading
Iranian ports is an act of war and thus
a violation of the ceasefire. So, it's
become very clear that in order to
proceed with the sequencing, i.e., to
proceed to another round of talks, the
Iranian side are maintaining that they
want to see that US naval blockade
lifted. And they're certainly
trying to push that narrative forward.
There was a lot of state media reporting
today suggesting that some signals had
come through from the US indicating that
they were willing to lift the US
blockade. So far, we have not had any
confirmation that that is the case from
the US. And if anything, this morning,
as you were just talking about, there've
been multiple episodes of IRGC reported
the firing at a
container vessel that was passing off
the coast of Oman. Uh, just in the last
few minutes, Tasnim are also claiming,
this is state media, that Iran has now
seized two ships for violations. So,
this really underscores the danger.
At the same time, if you look at the
traffic of passage going through, it's
really trickled down to low single
digits. And so, if you put all of this
together, yes, we have a ceasefire. It
is an obscure ceasefire because we don't
know what conditions it's linked to, but
it's not a long-term resolution. We
don't know if there's going to be
another round of discussions. And for
all intents and purposes, the strait is
still effectively shut and still
dangerous. Jomana Bersechi live in Dubai
leading on coverage. Jemana, thank you.
Just to pick up on that news report from
Tasnim news agency, the semi-official
news agency in Iran. We've received some
sign they're ready to break it, and as
soon as they break this blockade, I
think the next round of negotiations
will take place in Islamabad. The market
clinging to that story, that report
earlier this morning. Yeah, clinging to
that, but that is not what we are
hearing from the President of the United
States or the Treasury Secretary.
Actually, what we're hearing is that
they are doubling down. Now, a few
Iranian ships have gotten through and
they turned off their tracking devices,
but I don't think this is bullish this
morning when Tasnim is also saying that
Iran seizes two ships for violations and
the IRGC transferred those seized ships
to their coast. If you are on top of a
vessel and you are a company, are you
going to let your people through? Are
you going to say, "Yeah, we have the
confidence in this?" I don't think so.
>> Brent crude 9960, WTI 9061. Here's the
view on Wall Street this morning. Aaron
Kennan of ClearBridge Asset Management
writing, "What had been a clear
value-driven market has at least
tactically pivoted back towards growth
leadership in the wake of geopolitical
stress." Aaron joins us now for more.
Aaron, good morning. Good to see you.
Let's talk about that stress. You've got
good versus bad and better versus worse.
No [snorts] doubt, without question, the
situation in the Middle East is bad. It
is not good, but is it getting better?
And are you confident it won't get
worse?
It's It's challenging to to make that
assessment. You know, if you go back to
1 year ago, we're dealing with tariffs
and liberation day.
And you could game theorize around the
decision of one individual, the
president. And today, where this is
multivariable. This is not just a
decision by the President of the United
States. And we don't even know who the
decision-makers really are in Iran. And
so, it's making it really challenging.
With that said, the VIX is below 20,
equities are buoyant. We've seen a shift
back towards sort of the growth
narrative and on the equity side here in
the United States. So, there's a good
deal of optimism built in, and earnings
are are kicking in and looking
reasonably strong last
>> through those pillars. It's important.
Financial conditions are easing. The
outlook for earnings is improving, the
data's been better than expected. Is
that enough to insulate the bull case
right now? Is that something you really
want to fight?
Well, it it's challenging. Clearly, the
market has their eyes on on on on those
variables, Jonathan. And we're starting
to see earnings come out. They they've
been relatively strong. There's a little
concern
among consumers, but there's been great
strength across financials. The hardware
side of technology has been super
strong.
We've seen We're going to see IBM report
later today, so we'll get a little
little bit of a read on that. And I
think investors are looking at the
the rise in consensus earnings, which
have only been trending upward
throughout this crisis. Double-digit
expected annualized earnings for the S&P
500 this year. Who'd have thought that
just a couple months ago?
>> Driven by just a handful of companies.
When you see that, do you see
concentration as a feature or a bug?
Well, I I I think clearly, if you take a
look at the two companies that make up
about 60% of this improvement in
anticipated earnings, Micron, so read
memory chips,
and ExxonMobil, read higher oil prices
and higher revenues. 20% of our oil,
nearly 20% coming through the Strait of
Hormuz. We just
talked about Lufthansa. We have huge jet
fuel concerns in Europe this summer.
How's that going to impact consumer
travel? How's that going to impact, you
know, sort of transcontinental travel,
consumer consumption, investor
sentiment? So, lots of uncertainty right
now weighing on markets, but markets
remain relatively buoyant and hopeful.
Given where we are today, can you make a
call on any of those judgments about jet
fuel and where some of these companies
are going to be?
It It's really challenging, but I think
the the experts seem to think that if we
continue to have these supply
bottlenecks, in about 3 weeks' time,
in the European Union has been getting
together and meeting on this topic,
we're going to have to have significant
rationing, not just in Asia, but but
specifically in Europe. You're going to
see flight cancellations. You're going
to see sharp spikes in uh ticket costs
if they do fly those planes. It's going
to be a big problem. This is not about
price. It's about availability of
product. If that is the scenario in a
few weeks' time, what does that mean for
markets in the United States? Yeah, I
mean, I think something has to break
clearly um in the not-so-distant future
here. And I think uh you know, we'll
have to see where where where this sort
of fog of war uh whether or not it
clears or or whether or not it it it it
doesn't. Um I will say the three big
bullet points for the president at the
outset in in it seemed to be we have to
reduce their ballistic missile
capabilities. We have to consider regime
change, but maybe not boots on the
ground.
And you know, I and I think the other
one, of course, is what are we going to
do with this enriched uranium? We need
to remove it somehow from that country.
One box has been checked, but not all
three, and it's a ballistic mix missile
box. That's a problem, and it leads me
to think that maybe markets are a bit
too optimistic here going forward.
>> is a sticking point in negotiations as
well when you see the reports from the
Iranian side. The pushback from them
ultimately is, "Those objectives weren't
achieved through military means. Why
should we give them up now?" Exactly.
And also for the Iranians, why should
they give up the one piece of leverage
they have right now, which is the Strait
of Hormuz? And when you see some of the
kinetic features of this conflict, it is
the IRGC right now that is having those
gunboats go over to those vessels.
They're the ones that are in charge
right now of of Iran, not the political
actors that are meeting with, say, J.D.
Vance or Steve Witkoff.
>> And when you've got options, you can
hide in cash, just stay clear of
everything, or you can make that
tactical call just to hug the more
growthy parts of this market with the
secular tailwinds behind them. What do
you want to do? I I think we're doing a
lot of different things at Clear Harbor.
Most of our clients, we have multi-asset
class portfolios. Within equities,
however, take a look at, you know, sort
of the the growth orientation of, you
know, companies outside of AI and the
the compression of price to earnings
multiples that we've seen over the last
weeks and months. There's opportunity
there, we believe. You look at 10, 15,
20% annualized growers outside of the
sort of SAS concern. Right. Look at like
sort of
robotics within the surgical community
as an example. We had Intuitive Surgical
report yesterday. Very strong report
from Intuitive Surgical. I mean, that is
not they're leveraging AI,
but but those types of of growth secular
growth companies we think are very well
positioned. And it's not just within
healthcare, it's across the technology
landscape, it's across uh consumer
discretionary. We're seeing it also in
some areas of energy where there's
opportunity. But we're we're allocating
to alternatives, we're allocating to
fixed income. We have multi-asset class
portfolios at ClearBridge. I don't
appreciate your time. Yeah, as always,
thanks for being here. Aaron Kennon Day
of ClearBridge Asset Management. If
you're just joining us, welcome. Futures
holding on to gains positive by 0.5%
following the first back-to-back losses
of the month so far on the S&P 500. With
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg Brief, Yohara has more. Hi,
Yohara. Hi, John.
Iran seizing two ships for what they're
calling violations. Tasnim, the
country's semi-official news agency,
saying the IRGC transferred the ships to
Iran's [music] coast. The ships are
reportedly from Panama and Lithuania.
President Donald Trump extending the
ceasefire with Iran. The president
making the announcement in a Truth
Social post after planned peace [music]
talks fell apart. It came just hours
after Trump said he was not inclined to
extend [music] the truce.
And a small group of unauthorized users
gaining access to Anthropic's new
Meathos AI model, [music] which the
company warned could enable dangerous
cyberattacks. According to documentation
viewed by Bloomberg, users in a private
online forum obtained access on the same
day Anthropic announced a limited
[music] test release of the model.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohai, thank you. Help me make sense of
this.
It is either one or the other.
Either
it is so dangerous that only approved
users can use it and access it, so we're
being really careful.
Or it's not that dangerous [music] and
we shouldn't be concerned that
unapproved users have got hold of this.
Which one is it? Cuz it can't be both.
Um I think the US government is trying
to figure that out right now as we
speak. Right? Yeah. Kind of crazy. Up
next on the program, Kevin Warsh on
Capitol Hill.
The president never once asked me to
commit to any particular interest rate
decision, period. And [music] nor would
I ever agree to do so if he had.
>> Are you going to be the president's
human sock puppet? Uh Senator,
absolutely not.
>> Let's get rid of this investigation so I
can support [music] your confirmation. I
got a feeling that rate was going to
hang around. Remember Carney, the
unreliable boyfriend? Just sort of
followed him around the UK for quite a
while. Um yeah, I think that one's going
to hang around. On Twitter, everyone
says it's too late Powell, [music] now
it's sock puppet Warsh. Oi. Up next on
the program, Krishna Guha of Evercore,
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
>> [music]
>> So we got a bounce this morning, higher
by 0.5% [music] on the S&P 500 following
a two-day losing streak on the S&P.
Yesterday, the losses erasing the gains
to later in the session as we learned
that Gerry Vance, the vice president,
wasn't going to make that trip for talks
[music] to Islamabad. And then after the
closing bell, the president extended the
ceasefire indefinitely. So there are the
gains so far this morning. In crude, and
I think this is interesting, WTI [music]
and Brent holding on to gains. Brent
crude still around triple digits. Brent
at 99.55
and WTI around 91 this morning.
>> that speaks to what's actually going on
in the Strait of Hormuz. Yeah, the UK
Navy overnight talked about how [music]
a vessel was taking fire by IRGC
gunboats. You now have Tasnim reporting
[music] that two ships were taken
basically hostage by the IRGC and what
they're saying [music] is because for
endangering endangering maritime
security. So right now it isn't safe in
the Strait [music] of Hormuz. So which
means there's no oil going to be passing
through the Strait of Hormuz as normal
levels, even though we have the
ceasefire. [music]
It's not as though there's no peace,
there's no war. We're just in this
limbo. That's just contributing to just
slightly higher yields as well on top of
the decent gains we've seen in the
[music] last 24 hours. The 10-year
around 432s, around 380. And at Savannah
this morning, Kevin Walsh on Capitol
Hill.
We are still dealing with the legacy of
the policy errors in 2021 and 2022. That
means a different new inflation
framework. Independence has to be earned
and it's earned by delivering on the
promises the president never once asked
me to commit to any particular interest
rate decision, period.
>> going to be the president's human sock
puppet? Uh Senator, absolutely not. I'm
honored the president nominated me for
the position and I'll be an independent
actor if confirmed as chairman of the
Federal Reserve. So here's the latest
this morning. Fed chair nominee Kevin
Walsh facing [music] an extended battle
for confirmation after President Trump
doubled down on the DOJ's probe into the
central bank. Bloomberg's Taylor Kahlil
joins us now from Washington for more.
Hey Taylor.
Hey John, good morning. Well, it was
clear from yesterday that Kevin Walsh
will have the votes to advance. The
question is just when because even
Senator Tom Tillis says that he likes
the nominee, though he is standing firm
that he can't get Walsh out to the full
Senate floor until that Department of
Justice's investigation into Fed Chair
Jerome Powell is resolved. And as you
know, Tillis really can make good on
these threats because Republicans only
hold a 13-11 majority on the Senate
Banking Committee. Now, I had the chance
to ask Tillis yesterday some questions
about what a viable off-ramp may look
like, including whether renewed
congressional oversight could be part of
the solution, and he told me he thinks
that could work.
I think it's a great idea. And you know,
in in in truth, the one thing I realized
in the Banking Committee is we never
really scrutinize capital expenditures
from these agencies that we regulate. We
should be looking at the business. I
think that's a great point that the
president's kind of brought up that we
we haven't really watched these things
in the till in the past, and we can all
benefit from that. So, if that was
launched and the DOJ dropped its suit,
then you would get
>> Yeah, it's the right order, too, because
there there was no referral from this
committee.
Now, to be sure, Tillis still needs that
DOJ suit to be dropped, but this felt
significant because back in February,
Tom Tillis had brushed aside the idea
that the Senate Banking Committee could
launch its own investigation to supplant
the DOJ's probe, and there feels like
there's some momentum behind this idea
considering we heard from Senate Banking
Chair Tim Scott earlier this week saying
that he's looking at some sort of joint
congressional action with his committee
and House Financial Services. But John,
at this point, President Trump was asked
about this off-ramp earlier this week,
and he is holding firm and doubling down
that the DOJ should consider should
continue in its suit.
>> Tony, great work. Dan in Washington,
D.C. Offit and Offit, the president's
not taking it. The most important
comment yesterday was after the heated
hearing. Senate Majority Leader John
Thune said the sooner the administration
can wrap up this investigation and get
ready to move forward with the new Fed
Chairman, the better off everyone can
be. So, that basically seems the Senate
Republican large position writ large,
not just Senator Tillis. His view on
Wall Street, Chris Nakagawa of Evercore
ISI "Wages laying the foundations for
forward-looking rate cuts motivated by
AI transformation." Krishna joins us now
for more. Krishna, welcome to the
program. A simple one to start. What did
you learn yesterday?
Well, it was a tricky dance for Wosh
because he had to satisfy three
different audiences. The senators who
need the confirmation, the president who
nominated him, and of course the market
was watching very carefully. I think he
did what he needed to do,
and there's no question he's going to be
chair as soon as these
uh investigations are wrapped up. What
did we learn? We learned the following.
First, Wosh really does want regime
change at the Fed, but he hasn't yet
been able to really specify in detail
what that means. Second, he's angling
towards building the foundations for
these AI transformation rate cuts.
Third, he's still a balance sheet hawk,
though he's going to be very careful
about how he implements it.
And fifth, that he wants to really rein
back Fed communications. So, this is
going to be, over time, a very different
Fed.
How different, how quickly, is going to
depend on whether he can bend his
colleagues. And the answer may be not
that different that quickly. So,
Krishna, let's pick out point number
three. And there's a range of good
points there, but number three on the
balance sheet. What underpins his
opposition to the balance sheet? And
what kind of meaningful change are you
anticipating?
Well, you heard from Kevin yesterday
really two different arguments. One is
about the incidence of monetary policy.
In effect, that rate cuts are more
equitable
than a larger balance sheet, which
primarily affects longer-term interest
rates and therefore has its first and
largest effect on financial asset
prices.
And second, that a big Fed balance sheet
is in some sense part of big government.
That it encourages large big government
government excesses. And I think there's
both an inflation concept there and a
political economy concept that Warsh
believes in small government and small
central banks. Christian, when he talked
about regime change, he was talking
about the Fed missing the mark when it
comes to inflation. He says there needs
to be a new inflation framework. What
could that look like? And I was focused
on that because the Treasury Secretary
in the past has talked about maybe going
after a range for inflation, not a
direct
point.
So, as you rightly point out, there are
there are a bunch of sort of technical
debates around how you might set out
your inflation framework, one of which
is range versus point target. There are
many, many others. I think the larger
point here is that what Warsh is saying
is I'm really serious that I want
far-reaching changes to the Fed's
framework, the way the Fed uses tools,
and the way that the Fed communicates
about policy and the outlook. The
problem is that really there's very,
very little detail. And it's much easier
to identify, as Warsh correctly has
done, some of the shortcomings of the
Fed's current and past approaches than
it is to actually identify rigorous and
systematic ways to do it better. There
are some big gaps there right now, and
that creates considerable uncertainty as
to how the Warsh Fed would seek to
operate. And I do worry that, at least
in the transition phase, that could be
associated with more volatility, uh with
more risk premium from the pure
uncertainty side, at least until we get
a better grip as to what Warsh really
will try to do differently. In some
ways, Christian, I think that Kevin
Warsh has a point, and a lot of people
in the street, maybe yourself included,
agree with him that we're still living
in the post-GFC
communication regime, and it's time to
move away from it. What kind of changes
do you think we could see in the not too
distant future on communication alone?
Well, so on the communication front,
what I'd say is this. I think there's a
general recognition among current Fed
officials and and the central bank
community more broadly that
forward guidance is something that needs
to be handled with a lot of care that
the forward guidance provided during the
pandemic sort of boxed the Fed in a
little bit and some of the other central
banks, too. And that it's not the sort
of instrument that should be used in
normal times when you have the ability
to move interest rates up or down as
needed. But, what she seems to be trying
to suggest something more than a desire
to really turn back the tide of
ever-increasing central bank
communication
talk less and about less including the
central bank's rate outlook. And I
slightly worry here that that's
something distinct from not doing
forward guidance. You know, if the
central bank communicates effectively,
it really is a very powerful means of
shaping the market rate path, shaping
and influencing financial conditions. We
don't want to go back to guessing what
they're up to. Krishna, I appreciate
your time as always. Krishna Guha there
at Evercore. It's always difficult to
unpack a neat message from a hearing
like yesterday
>> [music]
>> because as Krishna said, there are so
many different audiences for that
message. Up next on the program, we'll
talk oil with Vikas Dwivedi [music]
of Macquarie.
>> [music]
>> at 99. WTI around 90. Elevated by just 5
to 6/10 of 1%. The tension continues
[music] to simmer. So, I think of the
equity market, they're just looking for
this off-ramp the president and the
ceasefire he's extended without a
deadline [music]
as optimistic. But, in the oil market,
they're looking at the facts on the
ground.
>> [music]
>> And just this morning, Iran's IRGC
seized two ships and they are bringing
those ships to the Iranian coast. At the
same time, overnight, the UK Navy came
out and said IRGC gunboats hit a number
of vessels. It is not safe right now in
the Strait of Hormuz and the Treasury
Secretary says they are doubling down on
this blockade, so [music] don't test
them.
>> And they are the physical realities
right here, right now. 3 hours away from
the open and bell, the cash open just
around the corner. Let's get you some
single names, some morning movers.
Yuhara has more. Hi, Yuhara. Hi, John.
Even after cutting its full year
outlook, United shares are up nearly
1.8% in [music] the pre-market. Maybe
some of that having to do with that
overall market optimism over the
extension of the ceasefire. But, also
this, United did post better [music]
than expected results with demand
holding up
even especially in premium travel. And
Morgan Stanley also saying that the key
is that it updated its guidance and
[music] it did not pull it like some of
its peers. Moving on to Adobe, this is a
name that has been at the center [music]
of the AI disrupting software story and
it has been punished for it, down
[music] 30% year-to-date. But, today it
is catching a bid, up nearly 3.5%
[music] in the pre-market after Adobe
announced a $25 billion buyback, a clear
attempt to restore confidence and
[music] put a floor under those shares.
And we end on Capital One. This is
America's largest [music] credit card
lender. Shares are down nearly 2.6% in
the pre-market after it missed on
earnings [music] as it and as it puts
aside more money for bad loans. That
provision rising 72% to more than $4
billion, dollars,
that some cracks are starting to show up
in the consumer. And CEO Rich Fairbank
drawing a direct line to the Iran war,
saying that higher energy costs are
starting to weigh on [music] spending.
John. Yohana, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yohana later this
hour. On our radar this morning,
President Donald Trump extended the
ceasefire with Iran indefinitely [music]
while vowing to maintain the blockade of
the Strait of Hormuz. The president
writing in a Truth Social post the US is
pushing Tehran towards financial
collapse. Elsewhere, Fed chair nominee
Kevin Warsh pushing the fundamental
reforms to the Central Bank during his
confirmation hearing. Warsh vowing to be
strictly independent on interest rates.
The president never asked me to
predetermine, commit, fix, decide on any
interest rate decision uh in any of our
discussions uh nor would I ever agree to
do so. Republican Senator Tom Tillis
promising to block Warsh's nomination
until the DOJ ends its criminal probe
into current Fed chair Jay Powell. And
finally, a small group of unauthorized
users gaining access to Anthropic's new
Mythos AI model, which the company says
can enable dangerous cyber attacks.
Anthropic says it currently has no
evidence that the access is impacting
any of its systems.
>> So, it's a great Bloomberg scoop, and it
comes at a time, Jonathan, as we do know
the US government is also talking to
banks and other financial lenders when
it comes to Mythos. And only a certain
amount of people are actually allowed
access to this right now. But you made a
great point earlier in the program. Is
it so
scary, this product, that only a few
people should get access to it? But now
that we have a group that shouldn't have
had access to it, and nothing has really
happened, is it actually that scary?
>> So, I don't know. I don't know the
answer to that. So, look, it's either
one or the other. I'm not saying it is
one or the other. I'm just saying it has
to be one or the other. You can't sit
here and say that it's so dangerous only
authorized users can use it, but also
it's okay that unauthorized people have
access to it. It's one or the other. And
this is the difficult part of the whole
story for me. What is real? What is the
IPO pitch? That's what I've struggled
with the whole way along.
Undoubtedly, we're seeing real
technological progress here. But at the
same time, there is a marketing twist
going into some major IPOs later this
year, which makes it difficult to
differentiate between one or the other.
Senator Kennedy of Louisiana agrees with
you, and he said this yesterday at Kevin
Warsh's hearing. He said, "Here's my
worry. That's a lot of stuff about
artificial intelligence making us more
productive is a bunch of hype by people
who want to sell stock in an IPO. I'd be
careful there." That's the latest on
Entropic this morning. This morning Iran
seized into ships for quote violations.
Tasnim, the country's semi-official news
agency, saying the IRGC transferred the
ships to Iran's coast. Joining us now
for insight, Colonel Wayne Sanders,
senior defense research analyst at
Bloomberg Intelligence. Wayne, welcome
to the program, Colonel. Always good to
see you. Let's talk about where we are
right now, and I can tell you from the
markets' perspective where investors
think we are. They think we're on a path
towards de-escalation and not a path
towards escalation. Are you seeing
evidence on the ground that validates
that?
Yeah, absolutely. I think if you if you
look at it right now, both sides on the
IRGC for the navy fast boats, as well as
the US navy from the blockade
perspective, they're operating in the
only military box that they can inside
of the ceasefire. But one of the biggest
things that I use as an indicator is the
ballistic missiles and the drone attacks
are are virtually stopped. They're
they're pretty close to zero at this
point in time. They were averaging
between 70 up to 150 strikes a day minus
the first couple days. Obviously, and
now you're looking at maybe one or two,
even that. But they're being reported by
UAE, Saudi, Bahrain, and others, where
these are these strikes right now have
not happened since the ceasefire, which
I take as a very good sign that
negotiations are still possible. Well,
are negotiations possible with the US
blockade still in place, given the fact
that the Iranians have said verbally
that that would need to stop in order
for them to make that trip to Islamabad?
Yeah, absolutely. I think I think one of
the biggest pieces that's going to come
is is the economic pressure as you guys
were talking about from Kharg Island in
the in the oil stores as well as others
are going to put additional pressures on
there. It's very difficult also to find
out who we're actually talking to in
terms of Iranian leadership. There have
been some reports internally
where Iran is actually struggling from
that from a command and control
perspective and maybe one of the reasons
why you haven't seen that delegation
move over to Pakistan. So So from that,
you don't know exactly who you're trying
to talk to, who you're actually trying
to strike that deal with. Is it somebody
in Iranian's
back state media or whether it's a
foreign minister or beyond? So we're
trying to make sure that we understand
exactly who the Trump administration
would actually be negotiating with
during that during those peace deals as
well in Pakistan.
>> That has been the difficulty all along.
I've really enjoyed your commentary,
Colonel. Thanks for joining us this
morning. Colonel Wayne Sanders there of
Bloomberg Intelligence.
Who are they negotiating with and who's
in charge and are they the same person?
That's been the difficult part of all of
this all along. Well, Iran definitely
has consensus building in terms of their
Supreme National Security Council and
obviously the Ayatollah reigning
supreme. The IRGC is in charge and the
IRGC is the one that is definitely in
charge of Strait of Hormuz and we're
seeing that right now out in the open
when it comes to these gunboats and
these vessels. Who the United States is
talking to are political actors and they
don't always see eye to eye. Here's a
take from Macquarie this morning. This
from Vikas Trivedi. He writes the
following, "There are steps towards
market normalization from day zero of
traffic restarting through the Strait.
However, we do not yet know when day
zero is." Vikas joins us now for more.
Vikas, good morning. Good to see you.
Good to be here. Let's just start with
physical realities. We can see these
shortages starting to bite in Asia. Can
see it starting to work through the
airline industry. Lufthansa is canceling
20,000 flights. United Airlines cutting
the outlook. What are the physical
realities that you're tracking at the
moment?
We're tracking exactly that. Um, you
know, so we started with the
petrochemical sector, right? So
the loss of naphtha and some of the
feedstocks for that sector started to
hit immediately.
Uh jet fuel followed shortly after. And
jet fuel got a lot more attention
because, you know, most people don't
interact with naphtha daily, but uh
uh so it's following in a very
concentrated hit in Asia, and now it's
sort of transitioning to Europe. Both on
uh the petchem and uh jet fuel.
It will move to diesel and gas oil uh in
a little while, meaning in a few more
weeks. We're going to start seeing uh
announcements of uh problems with
securing diesel supply. And that's the
backbone of the world's economy for
transport
you know, for moving goods around. So,
you know, that is still coming. There's
been a lot of talk about a disconnect.
People often throw that word around, a
disconnect between the physical market
and the paper market. And many people
made the case that we'd see convergence,
but we'd see the paper market move
towards the physical market. The
opposite kind of happened in the last
week. What explains that?
Yeah, it's uh
it's more of a a set of, you know, shock
absorbers, right, that are not working.
So, you think about something happens in
oil, it's an impulse function, right?
And you get a hit, and then all these
things have to happen to absorb the
shock. Futures would go up, uh the
differentials between the futures and
the paper like in the physical would um
move a little bit, but what's actually
happened is the physical has just done
its own thing. And the futures have not
followed.
And so the the differential between them
was never contemplated to be this wide.
So, in some sense, it's broken, right?
And it may need to be reconfigured uh
after this. One of the challenges is
Brent is not deliverable. So, if you
hold Brent futures to expiry, unlike a
lot of contracts, you don't get the
barrels. So, you have to mechanistically
do it other ways, right, to force that
convergence. But it's not happening. And
it's been long enough now. I this next
Brent expiration, if we don't start
seeing that convergence,
then we may be in a position where no
matter what type of news flow happens,
you know, Iran gets their hands on
vessels or the US blockade holds,
traffic through Hormuz is still limited,
um
physically, on the ground, on the water,
the situation keeps getting worse, and
futures may not respond. You know, we
may still be talking about 98 to $100
Brent,
even though the situation on the ground
is getting noticeably worse
and hitting the real economy.
When it hits diesel, it's all it you
know, when it started hitting naphtha
and you can't make petchems, started
hitting the real economy, but there's a
lag there. When it hits diesel and gas
oil and then you can't move general
goods around, that's when we will all
kind of know it and feel it.
The US really thinks that more economic
pain potentially could be the reasoning
for the Iranians to show up at the
negotiating table. And yesterday,
Treasury Secretary said, "In a matter of
days, Kharg Island storage will be full
and the fragile Iranian oil wells will
be shut in." Do you think we're days
away from that?
Yeah, it's it's getting close, but we we
disagree that it will uh significantly
damage Iran's position.
You know,
>> Negotiating position.
>> Yeah, because um
even though oil is a big part of their
economy, it it represents it ranges from
10 to 20% of their GDP. So, it's a very
large economy without oil. Now, it is
the substantial source of funding for
the IRGC in that regard. That's
absolutely correct. But will it buckle
the economy and create a lot more pain
for the general Iranian public? The
answer we think is no.
Or it would take a lot longer. You also
say there's a series of steps that need
to happen once the strait actually does
open, but we're not we do you just can't
decide when's going to be the first day
that happens.
>> But what are the first steps that would
happen?
The very first step is we'll assume
Hormuz is open, right? And and you know,
you can get financing, you can get
insurance, and people can move through
it.
Uh if you start with that, you got to
move all the laden vessels, the full
vessels that are just hanging out there
uh out. And then you've got to bring
unladen or empty vessels back in. So,
third step is you need to start
regrowing production. And and they've
managed it very smartly.
The the the storage tanks in the Middle
East are are pretty far from being full.
So, there is logistical flexibility. You
need some space in your tanks if you're
going to restart production, right? That
oil's got to go somewhere before it goes
to tanker. So, you know, those are some
of the big steps. And it's going to take
a long time to unpack so much of this
even after the crisis is well and truly
over. Vikas, appreciate your time and
your insight. Thank you, sir. Thank you
very much. Vikas Dwivedi there of
Macquarie. Let's get you an update on
news worldwide. A busy morning all men
already. With the latest, here's Yahaira
Anaya. Hey, Yahaira. Hi, John. The
International Maritime Organization says
it's working on a plan to evacuate crews
from ships that have been stuck in the
Persian Gulf since the Iran-US war
began. The organization says it can only
implement the plan after clear signs of
de-escalation. [music]
Russia is set to increase oil flows
after restoring crude exports from its
main western ports following weeks of
disruption caused by Ukrainian drone
strikes. Operations resuming at all
three ports with most births back in
[music] service.
And voters in Virginia approving a
Democratic plan to redraw the state's
congressional map in a way that could
add up to four House seats for the party
in November. Republicans will have a
chance to level the playing field in
Florida with a GOP-led redistricting
effort set for a vote as early as next
week. That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Thank you for the update, Yahaira. Thank
you very much. Up next on the program,
consumer resilience.
People are overplaying the K-shaped
economy. The top 20% of earners
basically determine success or failure
for this economy.
>> Consumers do have the bandwidth to
uh work through the inflation. Up next,
we'll catch up with Holly O'Neill, the
president of consumer banking at Bank of
America. [music]
Each side positioning for leverage, it
makes tracking these talks or absence
[music] of talks very, very difficult.
The president vowed not to extend the
ceasefire, then extended the ceasefire
indefinitely. [music] We're waiting for
Iran to come to the table, not coming to
the table this morning. Equity futures
on the S&P positive by 0.5% on the
Nasdaq up by 3/4 of [music] 1%. The
hope, encouraged by Iranian
semi-official media suggesting that
there is a US signal suggesting [music]
the blockade might end soon. Right, that
was the signal that the Iranians thought
they got via Pakistan. But what we're
[music] seeing right now is the US
blockade is not ending. The Treasury
Secretary is doubling down on it, and
actually Iran just seized two vessels
and bringing them to their [music]
shore. And the IRGC is out in the
street, and the UK navy is talking about
the fact that there was [music] gunshots
against some of the vessels they saw. So
right now, things are not looking good
in the street. It's not war, it's not
peace, but there's no oil moving.
>> Still on the path of de-escalation,
that's a source of comfort. What are the
other sources of comfort? The outlook
for earnings, one. Two, the data.
[music] The data, pretty good. Retail
sales better than expected. Under
Savannah's this morning, consumer
resilience.
People are overplaying the K-shaped
[music] economy cuz you're not seeing it
in demand.
>> The top 20% of earners basically
determine success or failure for this
economy. Overall, uh the consumer has
remained intact.
>> Consumers do have the bandwidth to
uh work through the inflation, but it
doesn't mean that they're not kind of
economizing. So, here's the latest this
morning. US retail sales surging by the
most in a year showing consumers are
still spending even in the face of
higher gas prices. Joining us now to
discuss this Holly O'Neill, the
president of consumer retail and
preferred banking at Bank of America.
Holly, welcome to the program. You can
correct me if I'm wrong, but I think
these are the numbers. 1 million new
credit card accounts, 100,000 net new
consumer checking accounts. That is real
growth. Holly, where's that growth
coming from and what are the trends that
you and the team are leaning into?
Yeah, great. Good morning. And so, that
growth is coming across the board in the
consumer segment.
As you mentioned, the consumer remains
very resilient. So, we are still seeing
solid asset quality in our business.
We're seeing good organic growth. We're
seeing excellent liquidity for our
clients. That's their core operating
accounts are still over and above what
they were pre-pandemic and they're still
spending. So, spending growth was up
4.3%
year-over-year,
which is the highest rate of growth
we've seen since 2023.
And as you mentioned, gas prices are
part of that growth, but even when you
peel the gas prices away, the growth is
still there. So, 3.6%
when you take that gas price increase
out. Holly, a lot of the numbers we talk
about are aggregate figures. Can you
break it down across consumer groups?
How broad based is that so-called
resilience?
So, the core resilience we are seeing it
across all cohorts. However, we are
still seeing really very strong spending
growth in the higher income that leads
the economy, but we are still seeing
strong spend growth in middle and lower
income. So, so it is across the board,
but the trend is that the higher income
is really doing most of the work there.
Holly, how much are the larger than
expected tax refunds a lot of Americans
are getting cushioning their household
spending right now?
Sure. So, those tax refunds are higher
than they were last year and we are
seeing that offset the fuel price shock.
So, when you look on average those
refunds can withstand and absorb that
shock for about 5 months. So, we expect
that to continue to bolster and support
the fuel price increase we're seeing for
consumers. For 4-5 months though, then
in 4-5 months what happens then? Do you
think the households will be under even
more pressure?
We could see more pressure. So, we could
see some discretionary spending come
down.
Um, in March we saw that services, not
gas, actually drove March spending.
That's another really positive sign for
the consumer. So, they're not letting
the increase in gas prices
um, impact their their spend on things
like travel and leisure. Holly, you've
got great data on money coming in and
out of accounts. The conversation we
have with economists at the moment about
the potential for inflation, the
pushback we get is often the labor
market isn't tight enough, wages aren't
hot enough. How are you tracking wages
and incomes at the moment? What's that
picture evolving? What's it looking
like?
Well, as you know, unemployment still
remains in a normalized environment. So,
that is a very positive sign for the
economy. We're also seeing wage growth
across all higher, middle, and lower
income cohorts.
Um, the higher income cohorts are seeing
stronger wage growth.
Um, so that is a factor here, but we
still see wage growth across all
sectors. What about the credit story,
Holly? What's happening with credit? Are
you seeing more and more people just
make minimum payments on credit cards?
Any pockets of stress that we should be
tracking?
I would call it overall a very
normalized credit environment. So, it's
operating as we would expect within
within different quality segments of the
economy.
Um so, normalized environment, we are
still seeing good payoff rates on card.
Um and so, we're still seeing borrowing
and spending. Our loan balances over
overall were up 4% across all consumer
segments year over year. Um so, that's a
sign that clients have access to credit,
they're using it, but we're still seeing
them use it in a very responsible way.
So, we're still seeing good payoff rates
on a month-over-month basis. Holly, you
sound very optimistic. Consumer
resilient, you're looking at these
numbers, strong digital usage. Was there
anything in this survey and your
research that gives you pause for
concern?
I think, you know, one thing I would
point out is that we saw younger
workers, so those just out of college,
ages 22 to 27, um they have a level of
job uncertainty, slightly higher
unemployment. So, they could be impacted
um more severely by rising fuel prices
impacting their spending, but that's
really one of the only signs that we're
seeing here.
Um
so, overall, we I am very optimistic
about the consumer and the core tenants
of that are good, solid, stable
unemployment. We're seeing wage growth.
We're seeing spending. We're seeing
normalized credit quality. So, all of
those signs, I think, are pointing to a
resilient consumer. Holly, final
question. It's fun one. Keep on with the
World Cup, the upcoming World Cup this
summer. Looking forward to what that
partnership looks like with you, FIFA,
and the whole of the team as they bring
that circus to the United States. Holly,
some of the media coverage of the World
Cup at the moment isn't exactly
favorable. What kind of encouraging
signs are you seeing about host cities
and the kind of incomes we could see
pick up there, the kind of business
activity, economic activity we could see
across this nation and our sphere?
So, as you know, everyone is really
excited about FIFA and the World Cup
coming to the US. That will give these
local communities a boost a boost
support and spending and and really some
good activity in those communities. I
saw it firsthand at a friendly match
between France and Brazil. The crowds
were incredible. It was great to see
people pouring into the stadium. So, I
think you're going to see a lot of
activity in these local markets as a
result.
>> Very cool. I hope we see more of the
same. Holly, thank you. Appreciate your
time. Holly O'Neill there of Bank of
America. A real-time look at this
economy. The money going in and out of
accounts, the absence of stress, the
degree of resilience we still see in the
broader economy, and the hope because I
do hope that the World Cup later this
summer is a massive success because the
coverage of things right now, and I
understand where the coverage is coming
from, there's real reasons for it, the
coverage of it hasn't been favorable.
Well, how could it be favorable when New
Jersey Transit's talking hundred hundred
and fifty dollar train tickets to get to
New Jersey?
That's on top of already being able to
afford to go to the match. These numbers
to buy these tickets to go see some of
these soccer matches are just
astronomical.
>> I hope the World Cup bears a wrong later
this summer. That's my hope.
>> You're a World Cup bear. Unfortunately,
I have been, yeah. And unfortunately for
your team is not in it. So, there's a
lot of reasons for you to be a World Cup
bear.
>> I just think it's been so far, and I
hope I'm proven wrong, so far a bit of a
missed opportunity to improve access to
the game, to get the high school kids,
the middle school kids, the kids at
elementary school, to get them access to
these kind of games for some really
cheap tickets. I haven't heard enough
about that. All I've heard about is five
thousand dollar tickets, two thousand
dollar tickets, and one [music] hundred
dollar travel to get to the stadium.
>> It might be an own goal by the United
States and I'm there with you cuz I
played soccer growing up and the idea to
have a World Cup in America [music] is
so exciting. So exciting.
>> Equity futures right now in the S&P
positive by 0.5% up next we'll catch up
with Lindsey Rosner of Goldman Sachs,
the former defense [music] secretary
Mark Esper, Brandon O'Glensky of
Barclays, and the former St. Louis Fed
president Jim Bullard. [music] The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around the corner.
Consumers do have the bandwidth to work
through the inflation.
>> There's a lot of skepticism that
inflation is [music] really coming down.
>> You're really balancing between
inflation risk potential and where does
the Fed go? Outside of an aggressive
cutting cycle.
>> I still think we'll get one or two
[music] by the end of the year. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne Marie
Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
[music] now and your scores the price
action looks like this. Equity futures
passing back by 5/10 of 1% on the S&P
[music] following the first back-to-back
losses of this month so far. On the
Nasdaq 100 high by 3/4 of 1% [music] in
the oil market the tension simmering.
Just hovering around $100 a barrel on
Brent 99 [music] up by 6/10 of 1% on
Brent. WTI up by 0.5% [music] as the
president extends the ceasefire
indefinitely. Indefinitely, no deadline
which is really not par for the course
as president usually [music] have a
deadline that he's working to. He wants
to exert as much leverage as he can out
of these individuals and try to press
them to the table. [music]
Right now we're basically in limbo when
it comes to this conflict which is why
you probably see the oil market a bit
more elevated especially [music] when
you're getting headlines out of Iran
that the IRGC is actually capturing
vessels and the Treasury Secretary's
doubling down and saying this blockade
is not ending anytime soon. So what's
anchoring this market right now? Outlook
for an extra low K data has been pretty
decent. And on this on this specifically
we talked about this a few times already
this morning. There is a path towards
escalation, there is a path towards
[music] de-escalation, and at least for
now the president appears committed to
the latter and not the former. That's
the good news. Here's the reality at the
moment. This is the ripple effect, the
consequences continuing to build.
Airlines, United Airlines cutting its
outlook. Lufthansa
scrapping 20,000 [music]
flights as we work our way through the
summer. Later on this morning Bram
leases catching up with Scott [music]
Kirby of United Airlines at 9:15 Eastern
time. A lot of questions for his [music]
industry. A lot of questions for his
industry, and as we've spoken about what
we're going to see is a lot of
companies, especially airlines, have to
make tweaks on the margins. Interesting
though, [music] even though United
slashed its full year profit forecast,
they did say demand remains strong. What
did we just hear from Bank of America?
The consumer right now [music] is
resilient, and that is why it is such a
difficult moment. But I found one thing
very interesting from Holly. The tax
refunds that a lot of people are using
[music] now to basically cushion
themselves from higher energy prices,
she said that has 4 to 5 month
bandwidth. [music]
It's basically a band-aid. So they need
to really decide what they're going to
do with this conflict. [music] Can this
be wrapped up before it really starts to
put more financial strain on American
households?
>> Resilience, at least for now, equity
futures positive by 0.6% on the S&P.
[music] Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Lindsey Rosner of Goldman Sachs
with equities chasing the headlines. The
former US Defense Secretary Mark Esper
joins us as [music] President Trump
extends the Iran ceasefire, and the
former St. Louis Fed President Jim
Bullard on Kevin Warsh's path to
confirmation. We'll begin this hour with
stocks grinding higher following the
renewed truce in the Middle East.
Lindsey Rosner of Goldman Sachs writing
the tennis match of headlines is not
tradeable. This isn't the pre-COVID
playbook. Stay invested. Lindsey joins
us now for more. Lindsey, good morning.
Good to see you. Thank you. I'm
interested in that last line. It's not
the pre-COVID playbook. What does that
mean? Just unpack that for us.
>> Sure. So before before COVID we had tons
of time that you would have these kind
of big market events, and then you would
see the movement, and you would have
days, maybe even a week, to digest what
was going on, pick your spots, and
actually be able to put on a position.
Things are moving so quick. The cycles
right now are super compressed. So, that
idea that you can be cute and add on
weakness and buy those dips, it doesn't
happen any longer. So, as you look out,
what kind of time horizon are you
thinking about, and can you ignore this
mess as it evolves from day to day?
Yesterday's a great example of that, by
the way. Yesterday before the close,
we're talking about Vance not going to
the talks. Then after the close, 10
minutes later, we're talking about
extension of the ceasefire, an
indefinite extension of the ceasefire.
Just whipsawed from one direction to the
other. I I think that's case in point.
And so, if you look back pre-Iran to
where levels are right now, you've
almost had complete retracement. So, if
you look at just that context of 2
months, you should have just stayed
invested. The idea that you could have
taken off any sort of investments
because of this geopolitical conflict,
be able to add at the lows, ride that
back. I mean, nobody can be that kind of
hero in this market. So, it's important
to have a strategic framework of at
valuation levels, what do you think the
right amount of risk is.
>> So, let's wade through that. Let's start
with what we typically go to first in
fixed income, Treasuries. So, we're back
to the upper end of the pre-war range,
430 on 10s. I keep hearing that people
say we've created value in the yield
curve. There's value out there, you
should be buying that. Do you agree?
So, it's all predicated back to what you
were saying before, how quickly we get
out of this energy shock. Um rates, kind
of different than spreads, actually have
to care tremendously about inflation. Um
specifically in the US, obviously,
there's the dual mandate we heard all
about yesterday with Warsh. Uh elsewhere
across the globe, it's more about price
stability. So, inflation is even more
important, and different countries have
different kinds of exposure. So, in the
US, we have the ability to create our
own energy. That's really important. It
was It was propped as a national
security thing or motivation, and it's
correct. But so, have we created value
in the US? On the margin, it feels like
we're now going to trade in a higher
range because there is permanent
scarring from what's happened with oil,
right? We don't just get to go back to
normal. We have tankers that are stuck.
Um oil doesn't just come online as
easily as it sounds like we can just say
the conflict's over, let's go back. It
doesn't work like that.
>> Are you surprised that we were trading
right now given the physicality of the
realities on the ground? I mean, you
open your note with continued emotional
blockade required and that's how I've
been feeling the last 6 weeks. Yeah, I I
think you you cannot have emotion around
these kind of headlines. You have to
pull the camera back and see what's
actually the underpinnings of various
economies. And specifically in the US,
we're in the middle of earnings. We've
had 15% of market cap report. We've had
sales up 10%, earnings up 30%. Those are
really stellar numbers. That is the
actual economy. Oil, important, is an
input for some, is a use for others. Uh
that is real, but that's not the
totality. And so, I think if you just
get overwhelmed by the headlines and
emotional about it, you're going to miss
some opportunities to actually get
returns in this market.
>> opportunities outside the United States
right now? Uh there there are. We
actually think it's in emerging markets.
Where we don't think the opportunity is
is in Europe. Uh Europe's sensitivity to
energy and the fact that it isn't
homegrown in the way that we're saying
that the US and other places, actually
in emerging markets are as well. Um we
we like to lean into EM and out of
Europe. And we think that the pricing
that's happened, the movements that
Europe hasn't bounced back, makes sense.
This is the geographic disparity. Can
you take us inside credit and talk about
potential dispersion from sector to
sector? How are airlines trading right
now relative to say the obvious, energy
names?
Yeah, so uh the energy story is
challenged. Um name specific has to do a
lot with the debt that they carry. I
mean, there's been a lot of headlines
this past week about uh can there be
potential avoidance of bankruptcy? Uh it
is you really have to do your homework
and look to every single name. So, I
don't want to say broad strokes what's
happening with airlines. Broad strokes I
will say
um tech the the mega cap the this the
hyper scalers positive.
Um energy if you have oil as something
that you own and have access to, it's
been a good time for you. So, it it
really is um
very sector specific. And the other
thing I'd highlight too that's come
through so far in earnings is banks.
Banks have done tremendously well. And
that's been an overweight in our
portfolios for a long time.
>> Let's pick out that one sector tech
because tech is underpinning the
snapback we've seen in the equity market
as well. There was a moment where there
was just this pocket of tension that the
question was being asked, were we
starting to see pushback which would
force these hyper scalers to cut back on
capex and we'd see less issuance in the
future. Where are you on that now? Yeah,
so I think we started 2026 with this
idea of this is like the show me year
for AI. And so, as we waited to be shown
what AI could do, I think there was some
questions do these multiples make sense?
Oh my god, these capex numbers every
single year surprise to the upside. Can
that be justified? And I think we've
seen probably all of us in our
day-to-day life certainly from a
portfolio management perspective in my
seat the use case for AI. Like it is
absolutely part of what we do every
single day. So, the show me we've been
shown and I think that it makes sense
and that bounce back that you have is
warranted. I think also what we had in
the beginning of the year really in
February was this baby with the bath
water. Tech software SAS apocalypse or
whatever that phrase was,
there was just anything that touched it
you didn't want to own. And now people
are actually thinking about the
fundamentals and that's important. Back
to the emotional blockade. Like out of
the emotions, let's get into the
numbers. That's really what's most
important.
>> Software last week, software names best
week. Software on the S&P 500 best week
in 25 years. Major squeeze in that
sector. Well, to to your point, people
are just actually taking a step back.
You had all the ups and downs of the
Iran war after the SAS capital lifts,
and they're looking at what some of
these real earnings are going to be, and
also the impact on the real economy.
>> Lindsey, I just struggled with one thing
though. I'm still struggling with it
today. What is marketing and what is
real?
And I know you can't do single names,
but I'll do a single name. When
Anthropic comes out and says something
is really dangerous, we can only give
certain people approved access, makes
you think there's something crazy is
happening. And I imagine that the
valuation of that company might get bid
up into that IPO.
>> [snorts]
>> How much of it is just marketing, and
how much of it is about sucking in
capital ahead of some major IPOs in the
next 12 months?
So, these are there are many players in
this space, and so marketing's function,
I think, is to say we are the best
player out there. So, you you can't deny
that it makes sense that they would
speak about kind of their importance.
Um whether or not it's important, it
certainly feels like cybersecurity is a
huge risk out there. And so, if they
have something that can identify the
blind spots, that's important and
definitely warrants more focus and more
attention. Lindsey, always appreciate
your time, one of the best. Thanks for
making time for us. Lindsey Rosner there
of Goldman Sachs on credit, on fixed
income more broadly, and AI at the end
there. Well, while we're talking about
Anthropic, also Axios has this report
out today about OpenAI, and they're
briefing federal agencies, also the Five
Eyes, when it comes to their new cyber
product over the past week. Obviously,
Anthropic and OpenAI are neck and neck
for all of these tools, but also who is
going to get to the IPO first, and who's
going to have a better public offering.
>> It's a massive race for the year ahead,
that's for sure. Equity futures right
now holding steady, gains of 0.5% on the
screen on the S&P 500 with an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Yohara has more. Hi, Yohara. Hi,
John.
>> [music]
>> President Donald Trump extending the
ceasefire with Tehran while keeping the
blockade on the Strait of Hormuz.
[music] The president announcing the
decision in a Truth Social post after
planned peace talks fell apart. Hours
earlier, he had said he was not inclined
to extend [music] the truce.
Fed chair nominee Kevin Warsh fielding a
variety of tough questions yesterday
during his confirmation [music] hearing
on Capitol Hill.
Did Donald Trump lose the 2020 election?
We try to keep politics, if I'm
confirmed, out of the federal
>> asking a factual question. I need to
know, I need to measure your
independence and your courage. Senator,
I believe that this body certified that
election many years ago.
During the hearing, Warsh vowed to be
strictly independent on rates of
confirmed [music]
and pushed for fundamental policy
reforms at the Fed.
And a small group of unauthorized users
gaining access to Anthropic's new Mythos
AI model, which the company itself warns
could enable dangerous cyber attacks.
[music] According to documentation
viewed by Bloomberg, users in a private
online forum obtained access on the same
day Anthropic announced a limited test
release of the model. That's your
Bloomberg Brief, John. Johanna, thank
[music] you. Thanks for the update. Up
next on the program, buying time with
Iran.
Will you extend the ceasefire?
>> Maybe I won't extend it. Okay. But the
blockade is going to remain. Will you
give them a certain amount
>> I won't extend it. So, you'll have a
blockade
and unfortunately we'll have to start
dropping bombs again. Up next, we'll
catch up with the former US Defense
Secretary [music] Mark Esper, live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
Equity futures on the S&P holding on to
gains. We're up by 0.5% up by 0.7 on the
Nasdaq. The Russell up by 0.8.
[music] There are no talks, but we have
extended the ceasefire. And there was
one report from Iranian media. It's up
[music] to you how much weight you want
to put on this. I can only state what's
coming out of different publications.
From Tasnim news agency, the
semi-official news agency making [music]
the case that there has been a signal
from the United States about ending the
blockade. Potentially, maybe in a few
days we could see that. [music] But
right now, at this moment, and also that
was an Iranian source. I'd love to hear
that from White House. At this moment,
the [music] blockade is there. Treasury
Secretary's talking about it even
himself because it would be Treasury
that they're going after these
sanctioned [music] vessels. And the IRGC
is actually capturing vessels that are
trying to pass. Someone said to me, "No
war, no peace, but no oil."
>> Which is why Brent crude is still around
100. Trying to get 99 so far this
morning. WTI back into the 90s [music]
as well. Crude and Brent and WTI up by
around 1% on the session so far. Under
Savannah's this morning, bank time
>> [music]
>> with Iran.
You don't do a ceasefire when you're
literally obliterating the other side. I
think we have a very successful
negotiation going on right now.
And I think it'll be if it if it
happens, it'll be announced fairly soon.
And that'll give us
free oil, free almost straight.
Everything will be nice.
>> Will you extend the ceasefire? Maybe I
won't extend it. Okay. But the blockade
is going to remain. Will you give us a
But maybe I won't extend it. So, you
have a blockade.
And then unfortunately, we'll have to
start dropping bombs again. So, here's
the latest this morning. President Trump
extending the ceasefire with Iran
indefinitely [music] with peace talks on
hold. Bloomberg's Taylor Kahlil joins us
for more. Hey, Taylor.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, despite
President Trump previously signaling
that he didn't want to extend the
ceasefire, he says that this will give
Iran more time to submit a new proposal
for the US to review. President Trump
saying that part of the reason why the
negotiations have collapsed is because
of what he is calling quote to seriously
fractured leadership in Iran as our own
reporting indicates that top officials
for the IRGC are pushing a much tougher
negotiating stance compared to say less
ideological figures who appear more
inclined to make a deal with Washington.
The thing is what has been consistent
among Iranian officials is that they
want to see the US lift its naval
blockade before there is a resumption in
talks amid new escalation just this
morning as Anne Marie just mentioned
Iranian state TV reporting that the IRGC
has seized two ships it accuses of quote
secretly exiting or trying to exit the
Strait of Hormuz as a UK naval liaison
reports that Iranian gunboats have been
firing at vessels that are in the Strait
and we can also point to some new data
that Iran is now moving supertankers
into the Arabian Sea in a bid to try to
push back on the US's block of its
shipping. The thing is John, President
Trump has repeatedly said that the
blockade is not going anywhere and we
saw this potential for more escalation
in this post from Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent overnight saying that the
US will continue its maximum pressure
campaign. Tal and Kendall with the
latest. Tal, thank you to extend the
conversation I'm pleased to say we're
joined now by the former Defense
Secretary Mark Esper. Mr. Secretary,
welcome back to the program. Appreciate
getting some time with you, sir. Many
people like yourself have made the case
that these strikes made sense because
Iran was unwilling to give up its
enrichment program. A lot of people
understand that perspective. Mr.
Secretary, do you think they're any more
serious this morning about giving up
that program?
No, it does not appear to be the case
right now. I mean, clearly we're at an
impasse and the key issues at this point
seem to be the control of the Strait of
Hormuz which Iran is asserting
sovereignty over and then secondly, of
course, the nuclear program. And when I
say that, it's everything from the 1,000
lbs or so of
enriched uranium that's there in the
country. It's the infrastructure that
supports it to include the cascades. It
includes my view we need to get
inspectors back in. So, to me those are
the two core issues and Iran has always
said and continues to state that they
have a sovereign right and a right under
international law to enrich uranium. So,
to me those are the main points right
now that both sides are fixed on. That
was the point of course at least the
nuclear that disrupted talks nearly 8
weeks ago in Geneva. This has been a
long-standing problem. Mr. Secretary,
clearly certain elements of the military
campaign have been successful. One
objective was to degrade the military
capability of Iran. Without a doubt,
we've seen that happen to a certain
extent. What can happen now? What can
the US do to exert additional pressure
and through what means to get Iran to
come to the table and achieve the other
objectives?
Yeah, that's a good question. First of
all, you know, while the decapitation of
the regime was successful, what it did
was change the leadership and
rather than put in a more pragmatic
group of people, it put in a more
hardline group of people and of course
the IRGC has asserted more control. So,
now we have a regime that's seems
seemingly more willing to dig in,
although the the claims that there are
fractures within the government right
now tend to be true. But, I
I I suspect they'll kind of wrap that up
pretty quick. Um
My My sense again is that at this point
each side is going to stick to its
positions with regard to the blockade,
the control of the straight. And we'll
see who breaks first under economic
pressure. We know of course the impact
it's having on the west with
countries who are net importers of oil,
particularly in Asia, are suffering, are
tightening their belts. We know that jet
fuel is going to be start becoming
pretty scarce here in a matter of weeks
and there are other effects such as
fertilizer and helium and whatnot. But,
on the other hand, Iran gets 450 or so
million dollars a day from its oil
export export. So, how how long can it
hold on? So, I think each side is
staring the other down to see who blinks
first and Trump has said, "Look, he'll
wait for a counter proposal." Although,
there's some early reporting this
morning that he said, "We'll give them 3
to 5 days." Which would take this until
next Monday or so. So, you don't think
the regime is as fractured right now as
some of the reporting suggests? In the
next few days, could we see them speak
with me more of a unified voice and show
up to these talks?
I I suspect so. They need to. I mean,
you know, they were were the talk now is
that the speaker Galibaf is is more of
the pragmatist here. But, keep in mind,
he has
he was an IRGC commander. So, his roots
go back in the Mojtaba Khamenei, who we
haven't seen,
also has a close relationship with the
IRGC. So, I I think there was some
problem with messaging. I suspect
they'll get on the same sheet of music.
If not, it'll be interesting to see how
that plays out with regard to the
Iranian government. But, again, the IRGC
has the guns and usually the guys with
the guns uh
they play the tune. Exactly. Jonathan
was mentioning how the financial
markets, at least, were some of them
holding on to that report that maybe the
United States was willing to give up the
blockade. How long do you think the US
could sustain this blockade?
I think we can sustain it indefinitely.
The United States military definitely
has the capability, the Navy, to do so,
particularly with regard to how they're
postured in the Gulf of Oman and and
beyond that and the ability to reach
internationally to do that. Um look, I I
I it's hard to see President Trump
blocking backing down on the blockade
unless Iran does the same. And what I
mean by that is Iran has to has to back
off this claim that somehow the new
routes will go right along their
coastline and between their islands.
There has to be permission from the IRGC
first before you approach those lanes.
And then, of course, we know they've
been trying to charge or have charged $2
million or so per ship to transit. Uh
that cannot uh that cannot happen. We
have to return uh in one way, shape, or
form to the status quo ante to get back
to something that's reasonable with
regard to a future agreement going
forward. The reports in the Financial
Times, as well as Bloomberg, about some
Iranian vessels being able to get
through the blockade, turning off their
um tracking devices. How hard is it for
the for the US Navy to track some of
these ships if they do do that, turn off
and go dark?
Look, we can see these ships with
overhead surveillance from drones, from
satellites.
Uh you know, we obviously have radar. We
can track these ships. That's that's not
an issue that they turn off the
transponders. It's just a matter of
making sure that we can pick them up and
then
do what we need to do. Of course, we saw
the other day the dramatic footage of
the US Navy taking shots, disabling a
ship, and eventually boarding it. So,
I have complete confidence in the United
States Navy to do that. And now, of
course, we see the Iranians are
reciprocating by seizing two ships and
and took shots at a third one in the
last 24 hours or so. So, this is has had
possibility to really heat up with
regard to the innocent players in the
Gulf, the hundreds and hundreds of ships
that are stuck up in the Persian Gulf
trying to make that run or believing
that they got the okay to do so and
eventually get captured by the Iranians.
If the US Navy has the ability to go
after these vessels that shut off their
transponders, why are they letting some
of them through? Was that an economic
decision for some partners in Asia?
I I'm not sure I believe the Iranians
that ships are getting through.
I think we need that that those are good
questions to ask of the administration.
Maybe some are being let go, but I I
doubt it. I think that may be more
propaganda from the Iranians. Mr.
Secretary, in some ways you're on the
outside looking in now. And I can tell
you it's difficult sitting in this seat
to understand what's real, what isn't,
what is just part of negotiations ahead
of potential talks about talks. From
your vantage point with the experience
you have, what is guiding you and the
way you're thinking about the trajectory
of things?
Well, look, clearly again, we have a
more hardline hardline regime in here,
and a lot of what they're doing is
messaging to the domestic audiences,
messaging to others within the
government, trying to get the word out.
In my experience of sitting in the
situation room dealing with the Iranians
is they do put on a they do make public
statements, and then they have private
statements or domestic messaging that is
far more hardline. So, you have to sift
through those two things, but on the
other hand, the administration's
messaging has been all over the map as
well. One day it's threatening, the next
day it's conciliatory,
the next day it's we talk about you
know, deploying more forces and then
we're talking about backing off. So,
both sides are there are mixed messages
coming from both sides, but I think it's
clear
though that both sides don't want to go
back into a hot conflict in terms of
exchanging
missile shots, drone shots, air attacks,
and but neither do both sides want to
blink first. So, we're really at this
impasse and we'll have to see what
happens. I'm sure behind the scenes
countries, certainly the Pakistanis,
Europeans, maybe even the Chinese are
trying to get both sides into some place
where we can get an agreement to lift
this this blockade of the Strait of
Hormuz because the folks paying right
now are everybody else as well, right?
They certainly the Asian economies and
to a lesser extent the European
economies, but gas prices, oil prices,
the price of diesel fuel which
transports so much of our goods has gone
up all around the world. Mr. Secretary,
appreciate your time. Thank you, sir.
The former Defense Secretary there, Mark
Esper, weighing in on the war in the
Middle East. That's a source of comfort
for many people in financial markets
that both sides don't want to return a
resumption of hostilities. The [music]
impasse though
comes with its own problems. It does.
We're in limbo, and the problem is we
don't know for how long we're going to
be in this sense of uncertainty. Some of
those problems in the airline industry
will catch up with Brandon Oglenski of
Barclays [music] as United cuts its full
year forecast. That conversation just
around the corner live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Back-to-back losses on the S&P 500, and
here is your bounce. Up by 0.5% on the
S&P and the Nasdaq up by 0.7, the
Russell up by 0.8 yesterday. Energy
stocks, the only sector in positive
territory on the S&P [music] 500. I
imagine that story's going to change
based on these moves so far. In the
commodity market, Brent and WTI shaping
up as follows. Brent crude [music] very,
very close to triple digits, 99.39 and
higher by 0.9%.
It's fair to say that yes, there are no
talks, there are no hostilities
broad-based hostilities in quite the
same way they were in March. The
market's clinging to that and the
prospect of a deal and a president
committed it seems so far to
de-escalation. That's the good news. The
bad news, the impasse has its own
problems. The physical realities are
still brutal
and they're kind of the kind of numbers
you see [music] on the screen a
reflection of that brutal fiscal
reality. Even with the impasse, it means
that no oil is getting through Strait of
Hormuz [music] or most or very little
amounts of oil. And actually, what we've
seen in the past few hours is things
have gotten worse in terms of the IRGC
[music] taking two vessels hostage. Now,
potentially, is that just where we are
today and things get better in the next
few days? We don't [music] know. But the
status quo right now is basically living
in purgatory when it comes to Strait of
Hormuz in this conflict.
>> Crude higher this morning by close to
1%. 2 hours away from the cash open, the
[music] up and about just around the
corner. Let's get you some single names,
the morning movers. Yohai has more. Hi
Yohai. Hi John, we've [music] gotten
some earnings in the last hour and the
standout is GE Vernova. Shares now up
6.8% in the pre-market after posting a
beat and a raise and it was already a
high bar. This stock is up some 200% in
the past year due to AI-driven [music]
power needs and it was still able to
clear those high expectations, blowing
past estimates and keeping that rally
[music]
going. Another stock that just another
corporate that just had earnings is AT&T
and it has [music] just flipped to
negative down about 7/10 of 1%. Even
after it beat
>> [music]
>> estimates with subscriber growth really
driving the story. It beat on both
wireless and internet subscribers
[music] and doing that even as
competition heats up with the likes of
Verizon and T-Mobile also offering
similar [music] bundled offerings. And
even after cutting its full year
outlook, we are seeing shares of United
Airlines up 1.7% in the pre-market. Some
of that likely having to do with the
overall optimism we're seeing in the
market due [music] to President Trump
extending that ceasefire. John. Yohai,
thank you. Thanks for the update. More
from Yohai later this hour. On a rate
down this morning, President Donald
Trump extending the ceasefire with Iran.
While maintaining the blockade in the
Strait of Hormuz, the president
announced the decision on Truth Social
after planned peace talks fell apart.
Elsewhere, Iran's UN envoy claiming
they've quote received some sign the US
will end its blockade in the strait. The
ambassador adding once that happens,
Tehran will be ready to resume
negotiations. And finally, the Trump
administration weighing an extension of
the Jones Act waiver, which is set to
expire next month. The exemption already
helping to move 9 million barrels of
crude and it's considered vital to
keeping energy prices stable. So, I can
see the administration doing this
because it's been a huge help for places
like California. You would think
California, given it is energy rich for
political decisions, it's actually
heavily reliant on products coming from
Asia. So, having the waiver has actually
helped places like California, also
Alaska. Remember Ryan Peterson of
Flexport was talking about Alaska become
this huge hub when it comes to freight.
So, as long as this crisis goes on, I
imagine some of these tools and measures
the administration introduced, they'll
just extend.
>> there's some people making a case to
permanently extend some of these
waivers. I think there are a lot of
people in the White House that think,
you know, quite frankly, the Jones Act
is a little bit silly and maybe we
should just make this a forever thing. I
think that would take congressional
approval, though.
>> We've talked lots about the fallout and
the ripple effects. You can see it in
the airline business. Lufthansa is
canceling 20,000 flights. United
Airlines cut its full year forecast on
rising jet fuel costs. Brandon Oglenski
of Barclays maintaining its 150 price
target, writing quote, United delivered
a relatively solid first quarter result
despite higher jet fuel prices, which we
believe points to double-digit unit
revenue gains." Brandon joins us here in
the studio for more. Brandon, good
morning. Yeah, good morning, John. Thank
you for having us. Thanks for being
here. I think it's important to start
the conversation on demand. And the
demand we had before the war and how
things have developed through the war.
Just walk us through that because demand
before this war, some of the numbers we
were seeing from the airlines really,
really strong. Yeah, that's right, John.
And actually, we closed out the fourth
quarter pretty decent. And then we got a
lot of guidance early in the year in
January when results came out. And
airline management teams were talking
towards like mid single-digit unit
revenue gains, which we can effectively
translate to pricing. We're now talking
about like 10% pricing gains here in the
second quarter. So, it's gotten even
better. And I know there's a chorus of,
you know, institutional investors that
are very concerned about what higher
energy costs mean for the US consumer,
especially looking forward. But so far,
the consumer's been voting very loudly
that discretionary spending on travel is
actually moving into a higher priority.
>> Just sit on that because this is really
hard for people to sort of get their
heads around, particularly people from
the outside looking into the United
States. Demand was great before the war,
and you're saying demand is picking up
through the war. I would argue it's even
gotten stronger. And this is across the
board, too, because if we talk airlines
the last few years, the lower main
cabin, the economy ticket, that's where
there was a lot of pressure on the
industry. You're hearing most management
teams say, "Look, we're seeing strength
not only in premium or long-haul
international, but even in domestic
economy now." So, I think we're
definitely seeing strength of a US
consumer accelerate here in quite the
opposite of I think, you know, more
bearish expectations. So, can that
demand basically counteract the rise in
jet fuel costs? Um it's a great
question. Right now, no, because jet
fuel's more than doubled from where we
were to start the year. And revenue's
up, let's call it 15% on capacity on
minimal capacity growth for the
industry. So, we are seeing very good
pricing outcomes, but not enough to
really uh offset the negative impact on
margins. However, if we look at the
forward curve for WTI and the implied,
you know, refining margins for jet fuel,
we should be getting back to close to
prior earnings power by probably the end
of the year or early 2027.
>> We've seen companies in Europe like
Lufthansa have to cut some flights.
Could we see that in the United States?
>> Uh absolutely. I mean, we heard Delta 2
or 3 weeks ago say, "Look, capacity's
going to be roughly flat in the second
quarter." United just last night said
they're going to cut five points out of
future growth, and that's going to put
them at expansion of maybe 0 to 2% in
the back half of the year. So, we're
seeing especially the big airlines
because Delta and United, Southwest,
American, each of them controls, you
know, roughly 20% of the domestic uh
business here. Domestic versus
international, let's break it up. The
world has a price issue.
Certain regions have a supply problem.
Domestically in America, we don't have a
shortage issue. We might have a price
problem. In Europe, we may well have a
shortage issue. And this is where the
transatlantic routes get interesting to
me at least. If Lufthansa is canceling
20,000 flights, surely some of the
forces they're exposed to, Delta,
United, American are also exposed to
them. You can't refuel
in one place and then refuel in the same
place again. You have to refuel where
you land. And if you can't get the fuel
in Europe, don't you have to start
canceling some flights? Uh I think this
could become a concern if this
uh you know, lack of air in the street
and in the lack of ability to move oil
across the or the world uh persists into
the summer months, and I think you know,
some of the things that we're seeing
from European carriers is also economic
decisions, too. Just like we're seeing
United and Delta say, "We're cutting
back on capacity." So, you know, I think
it's
could be easy at this point to say,
"Hey, look, we're we're envisioning that
jet fuel's going to be short." Uh but
for sure, I mean, we've heard these
warnings. I think that becomes again
more of an issue as we progress through
the summer.
>> You alluded to it slightly. I want to
unpack it just a little bit. Do you
think that this war, to some extent, has
been used as cover that's cut some
unprofitable capacity in certain places?
For sure. And I mean, let's bring it
back to the US real quick. Like the 6:00
a.m. flight out of Cleveland maybe is
not going to be profitable when WTI is
above $100, whereas maybe at $40 you can
make that incremental revenue work. Do
you think that even if it were to uh
have the sign-off of some of these
companies or interests, we could see a
United America?
Well, That's what I'm calling United and
American Airlines if they tied up.
United America, I like it. You can
propose it to Scott. I think he's going
to be on the the show later today. He is
a little bit later this morning.
>> you know, I I don't want to overlook the
boss yesterday cuz he was on another
news program, but effectively said we
don't want to see a big merger like
United and American. Like, you know, he
referenced the aerospace sector that we
let uh you know, that sector get too
consolidated. But they did mention like,
"Look, Spirit it's in They're in their
second bankruptcy. They need capital
because they're burning through more
cash than they suspected they would." Uh
you know, JetBlue, their CEO's out there
saying, "We're not considering
bankruptcy this year." So, I think when
you're seeing these comments from these
very levered airlines uh that we're
likely to see more consolidation on the
low-cost side where there is a lot of
balance sheet problems right now.
>> So, more consolidation, but exactly who?
Who's prime to make those deals? Well, I
again, I would propose the question to
Mr. Kirby when he comes on here. Uh he
said in the past that he was very
frustrated that United exited JFK, you
know, last decade and that was maybe one
of the biggest strategic And they have
to get to New York now. Right.
>> People like me are not going to do.
Well, and you should tell him, you know,
that maybe uh JetBlue could use some
help here. I'm not sure. Well, that
would be the one I would go to. JetBlue
would have those gates. They would have
that access. They have that footprint
over at JFK. I was never fully convinced
when I saw those stories
>> I know. that Kirby actually wanted
American Airlines. I felt like this was
just a page out of the president's book.
You anchor it to the extreme and then
the door opens to do something else. For
instance, JetBlue. And guess who he
pitched it to. According to Reuters, he
made the pitch directly to the
president. So, the president probably
recognized, "Oh, I like what you're
doing there, Uh Scott, but we're
actually that's a little bit too
far-fetched even for me, but maybe
there's more consolidation down the
line."
>> Brendan, do you see a strong case for
consolidation? Is there strong economic
case for consolidation at the top? Uh I
mean, look at JetBlue's statement that
their CEO put out yesterday, Joanna. She
said effectively there are benefits of
scale in this business that even at our
size, cuz JetBlue's not a small airline.
Uh but especially loyalty, the co-brand
credit card deals, which are very
lucrative and they get more lucrative
the bigger you are. So, I think it it is
important to have scale in this industry
even from a consumer perspective.
>> Have you got a favorite? It's a
difficult time, but you have a favorite
at the moment. Uh
again, it's difficult with the
volatility in oil markets, but yes, I
think long-term United and Mr. Kirby has
a culture moving in Chicago. Everyone's
on the same page there. We like it when
we have ambitious companies. I think,
you know, United's really on the right
track.
>> I ask that question at the end of every
conversation with our lunch. Do you know
the answer I never get? American. I knew
you were going to say that. What can
they do to change? What are they getting
wrong?
Look, uh
that could be a longer conversation. Uh
American
>> if that's okay.
>> American has lagged relative outcomes at
Delta and now, United for quite some
time. There's been some miscues within
their own internal organization. There's
been a little bit of turnover in the
executive ranks. And uh you know, we
like Robert Isom, but he's more
operationally focused. I think when you
look at American, it's how do you
leverage these mega trends within
airlines, which is people want more
premium products, they want more
international access. If we go back to
the pandemic, American significantly
trimmed their wide-body long-haul fleet,
which kind of took them out of
contention for that market relative to
what Delta and United have done since.
So, I just think structurally there's
potential there, uh but you need to see
maybe a little bit more ambition from
the leadership team.
>> There have been some mistakes along the
way, that's for sure. Brendan,
appreciate your time. Thank you, sir.
Brendan O'Glacys there of Barclays. We
mentioned it is happening later 9:15
Eastern time Lisa Abramowicz Scott Kirby
the United Airlines CEO plenty to
discuss. The takeaway for me from that
conversation is a lot to unpack there
but ultimately demand was good going
into March demand is even better March
through April.
>> And I think you made a great point. For
some companies are they just using the
war as a convenient excuse to get rid of
maybe some routes that actually weren't
making a lot of money and didn't really
make sense for them.
>> United this morning higher by close to
2%. Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yohai is back with us for more. Hey
Yohai. Hi John. We are seeing Boeing
shares up 3 and a quarter percent. The
plane maker posting lower than expected
expected cash outflow as it delivered
the most aircraft in the first quarter
since 2019. Boeing is ramping up output
of the 737 [music]
family a major step toward turning
around its finances and paying down
debt.
SpaceX agreeing to either acquire AI
coding startup Cursor or [music] pay for
its work. SpaceX is planning an IPO this
year after its merger with XAI [music]
which CEO Elon Musk has said is behind
on coding tools compared to its peers.
And the White House has reportedly come
up with a list of tiers of NATO allies
according to Politico. It includes a
summary of member countries
contributions to the alliance as [music]
President Trump warns of consequences
for not backing the US in the war with
Iran. That's your Bloomberg brief John.
Yohai thank you. More from Yohai in
about 30 minutes time in the next hour.
Up next on the program regime change at
the Fed. [music]
The Fed missed its mark
and we are still dealing with the legacy
of the policy errors in 2021 and 2022.
Does that mean a regime change in the
conduct of policy? Up next we'll catch
up with the former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Bullard. Live from New
York City. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. [music]
>> [music]
>> You can just sense the fatigue has
really set in. Two days of marginal
losses on the S&P [music] 500, the first
two-day back-to-back losing streak on
the S&P so far this month. Here's the
bounce [music] up by 0.6%. The Nasdaq
100 up by 0.7. We've said this
repeatedly,
the market has moved on. And the market
has moved on because they perceive from
the latest communication [music]
that we have a president that is
committed to de-escalation. And that in
the last 24 hours extending the
ceasefire indefinitely validates that
perspective.
>> There'll be a lot of stopping goes,
>> [music]
>> especially as we live in this limbo
given the conflict and the regime we're
dealing with and the fact that IRGC
seems to be very much [music] so in
control, definitely when it comes to
Strait of Hormuz. But I go back to what
Alex Altman said at Barclays. He was
like, I understand your frustration here
[music] when you're looking at the
physical market, but for especially for
equities, they just need to know, are we
going is an uptrend or a downtrend? And
based off the president of the United
States, it's an uptrend because the
president wants to put this conflict
behind him.
>> what often happens, and I say this a lot
in our business, is that journalists and
the media operations more broadly around
the world, not picking on any
anyone in particular.
>> to me, John? No. I think they're very
[music] focused on good versus bad. And
markets operate in better versus worse.
>> Yes. So without a doubt, the situation
in the Middle [music] East is bad. No
one would describe it as good. From the
market's perspective, do you [music] see
a path, the ingredients for things to
get better or worse? And the market has
decided in the last several weeks that
the path from here is one where it gets
less bad if not better. Right. And for
the market at least, that's what you can
anchor yourself to [music] and start to
price in a better future. It might not
be good, but it's better than we were
say 53 days ago when the conflict 54
days ago when the conflict started.
Also, this [music] market has lived
through how many conflicts and issues
even the past of the
course of the last few years. Think of
Russia-Ukraine the beginning,
>> [music]
>> very concerning especially given the
energy space and the market then was
able to move forward. Things could
change, [music] but that's the state of
things right now. Things could change
fast, that's for sure. 99 of Brent, 90
on WTI. In the bond market right now,
yields come [music] again just a touch.
We're down across the curve, down by two
basis points on twos, 3.75.
And the Savannah this morning, [music]
regime change at the Fed.
The Fed missed its mark.
And we are still dealing with the legacy
of the policy errors in 2021 and 2022.
That means a regime change in the
conduct of policy. I think that means a
different new inflation framework. The
president never once asked me to commit
to any particular interest rate
decision, period. I'll be an independent
actor if confirmed as chairman of the
Federal Reserve. It's the latest this
morning, Fed chair nominee Kevin Warsh
calling for fundamental policy changes
at the central bank as uncertainty looms
over his path to confirmation. The
former St. Louis Fed president Jim
Bullard joins us now for more. Jim, good
to see you, buddy. As always, welcome to
the program. Based on that hearing, and
I know it's difficult to make hard based
and big conclusions right now, but based
on that hearing, what are your takeaways
and what changes you anticipate at the
Federal Reserve?
Yeah, I don't think the
the hearing itself was not very
surprising. It's a lot of political
theater that we're used to.
I thought
Kevin Warsh was well prepared.
He had some zippy answers to difficult
questions and which is what you need in
this situation. So, I think in a
different era this would this would go
by voice vote, you know, through the
Senate, but it's we're not in that era
and so it's going to be tied up a little
bit longer. I won't draw you into the
politics, of course, we know why this
might be an extended battle to get him
confirmed, but ultimately for many
people it's a matter of when and not if.
Jim, when he does get in, can we talk
about communication? Because you
yourself, when you were on the
committee, you had your own issues with
the dot plot of the Federal Reserve, the
forward guidance.
>> [clears throat]
>> We've been living in the post-GFC
communication regime for a long, long
time now. What changes do you think need
to happen?
Uh I think
you could definitely improve the dot
plot. The committee has had a hard time
uh coming to grips with that. Uh I'm not
sure what Kevin wants to do with that.
Um
Um but I think it could be done better.
What you The main thing you should
really do here is just move to a
monetary policy report that would be
quarterly. That's what other central
banks do. That's an international
standard. You don't have to divine
everything from a few dots. You can have
a more fullsome uh report on all of the
things that are going on in the economy,
including, you know, the war or if
there's weather or whatever else is
going on in the economy, you can talk
about that in a in a monetary policy
report. So, a good thing for him to do
would be to come in and say, "Hey, we're
just going to replace the dot plot with
a monetary policy report the way other
central banks do it." Jim, how do you
think the committee will feel about
that? Will they get on board?
Uh I would hope so. I think time has
come for this. Uh
the the dot plots are very, you know,
was put in relatively quickly, I think.
Uh I think Ben Bernanke thought that he
could make modifications to it, but but
then uh it kind of devolved into a
stalemate and and that's where we are
today. And that's why you've got this
kind of uh mystical uh
uh dot plot that we use. He talked about
regime change, but can you translate to
in details what else we could see out of
a Kevin Warsh Federal Reserve?
Um I think on the communication, he
equivocated a little bit on press
conferences. So, uh we'll see. I've been
an advocate of press conferences. I
think it's that also I think is an
international standard. Everybody does
it uh every meeting. So, I I'm I think
it would be hard to pull back from that.
That would be a reduction in
transparency.
Uh markets aren't going to be too happy
about that. Um other types of
communication, I mean maybe you maybe
you could change it a little bit, but I
I think the cat's out of the bag. Uh the
uh the era of uh transparency has been
very important uh to markets. I don't
think you can go back to the Greenspan
era. Uh you know, which sometimes I get
the impression that you know, there's a
little bit of
uh
you know, wishing for that era. And I
lived through that, too, and I loved it,
too, but I I don't think you I think
it'd be very tough these days. Sometimes
it's difficult to put the toothpaste
back into the tube, Jim. You know that.
Jim, I want to talk about balance sheet
policy. It's clear that the incoming Fed
chair, if he's confirmed once he's
confirmed, has an opposition to the way
the balance sheet's been loose,
particularly after GFC. It's obvious to
us why it was used in the way it was
once you got to the zero lower bound,
you start to lean on balance sheet a
little bit more. His commitment to doing
something about that, Jim, how are you
envisioning that's going to look in the
next several months and potentially
several years?
Yeah, I think it would take years. Uh I
think he could put the ball in motion.
Uh I think the Fed could operate with a
smaller balance sheet. You don't have to
have it the way it is uh today. But he
would have to get consensus on the
committee. You'd have to work carefully
with markets. Uh I think but I think it
could be done in a way that didn't
disrupt
uh activity and and allow the Fed to
carry on in other aspects uh as they
have. Jim, one element of his argument,
one dimension of it, is that using the
balance sheet in the way it's used has
pulled the administration, pulled the
Federal Reserve into politics. I'd make
a counterpoint that the short-term
interest rate is only one tool and it's
limited in its effectiveness. And that's
why you yourself started to lean on the
balance sheet to attack longer-term
interest rates. Jim, if they put more
emphasis on short-term rates, what does
it tell you about their ability to
really influence the US economy more
broadly?
Yeah, the story of the balance sheet is
really the story of the effective lower
bound of the zero lower bound. So, it's
only in those situations that you might
want to, uh, come back to balance sheet
policy. And we saw it pretty recently,
right? The pandemic. Uh, we slammed the
interest rate down to zero, uh, and went
right into QE type, uh, policy.
And, uh, and I think that would happen
again if you got some big shock, uh, in
the years ahead. And so, I think that
the committee should just be,
uh, forthright about that and say that
that's what they plan to do. But, I
think what, to be fair, I think, uh,
Kevin Warsh has been a, uh,
uh, vocal and
a droid critic of, you know, once that
is over, that you don't need the
gigantic balance sheet anymore and you
should have a policy of getting it back
to a normal size so that you have more
scope in the future. And I think that
that is a reasonable thing to say.
>> I think give me, you're suggesting it's
still going to be a crisis era at all,
is he?
Uh,
I don't know what he says about this,
uh, so I I won't put words in his mouth,
but, uh, I would say if you got a
pandemic-size shock or a,
uh, financial crisis-size shock, uh, you
I would bet that that's the way the
direction the committee is going to go
and Marcus would expect that global
financial markets would expect it. So,
if they're not going to do that,
then I think you should say, "Hey, we're
swearing off this tool. We don't need it
anymore. Here's what we're going to do
in a crisis." Interesting. [music] Jim,
thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Excuse me
for jumping in. We're up against the
commercial break. Thank you, sir. The
former St. Louis Fed President, Jim
Bullard. Up next, we'll catch up with
Brian Nick of NewEdge Wealth, James
Picariello of BNP Paribas, [music]
Stephanie Roth of Wolfe Research, Chris
Watling of Longview Economics.
The market is getting more discerning.
>> You're starting to see a bit of a
broadening. There's some durability
behind this.
>> The technicals in the equity market are
extraordinary. [music]
>> The direction from here is really what's
the next positive surprise?
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores, the price action looks
like this. Equity futures [music] on the
S&P 500 bouncing back from back-to-back
losses held by 0.6% [music] on the S&P
500, on the Nasdaq up by 0.8 as the
president does something he said he
wouldn't do. He's extended the ceasefire
and this time without a deadline. In the
commodity market, Brent and WTI still
elevated, Brent around triple digits at
99, WTI [music] at $90 a barrel higher
by 0.6%.
The president's given the Iranians more
time to submit their proposals. [music]
He said this is based off the
conversations, especially through the
intermediaries in Islamabad. JD Vance is
not on his way there. There are no talks
[music] right now. So, we're in this
place of status quo. There's no intense
hostilities, although we did see the
IRGC take hostage [music] two vessels,
but at the same time there's no peace
and there's no oil in actuality really
moving through the Strait of Hormuz. For
the oil market, that's why they're
holding on to these gains.
>> is fractured. We know that. That's been
true for quite a while. He's waiting for
a so-called united proposal to come from
the Iranian side before deciding the
next move.
>> [music]
>> And we haven't had an official response
even now from the Iranian side. No, but
you I would say don't look what the
Iranians say, look what they do. And
what are they doing right now? Overnight
there was
you had gunshots
>> [music]
>> according to the UK Navy a number of
vessels. They just took vessels hostage.
The IRGC is in full control of the
Strait [music] of Hormuz. And right now
what you're hearing from the Iranians is
they're not going to let up on that.
That is their one piece of leverage
[music] especially as the United States
has this blockage.
>> More times and more earnings coming up
in the week ahead. Later on we'll hear
from Tesla. You'll hear from IBM. Then
on [music] to tomorrow you'll hear from
American Airlines. Don't miss this later
this morning. United Airlines the CEO
Scott Kirby sitting down with Bramo.
Lisa and Scott catching up at 9:15
Eastern time at a time when they've cut
their outlook and Lufthansa has slashed
20, 000 flights. Lufthansa has a bigger
issue than the American Airlines of
course because jet fuel is a serious
concern for Europe. The IEA was talking
about [music] maybe there's only 5 weeks
left of these airlines being able to get
a hold of jet fuel. And we just heard
from Barclays that the cost of that
[music] jet fuel right now has basically
doubled since before the war. I want to
put the American Airlines earnings
together and Lisa's interview together
to understand if we're going to have
maybe down the horizon a united America.
>> America. Is that Is that your branding
for the company?
>> for the company. So if they want it they
can come talk to me.
>> Based on recent communication I think
from American Airlines I think it's
highly unlikely it's going to happen.
And communication for the president
himself. But I think the door is open
for some kind of combination with United
plus one. Who that plus one is right
now? Spirit, JetBlue, not sure. Well, to
our Barclays analyst Brandon, [music] I
think makes a lot of sense if United
potentially was going to maybe go after
JetBlue because United doesn't have that
presence in JFK. [music] So if you want
to fly United in New York, you have to
schlep to Newark. Are you doing that?
I'm not sure. I don't think so.
>> that you don't want to do that.
>> want to do that.
>> Okay. We'll see [music] if that
question's asked. I imagine it will be.
Lights are on this morning, 9:15, Lisa
and Scott Kirby catching up at 9:15
[music] Eastern time. Equity futures in
this session highs higher by 0.6% on the
S&P 500. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Brian Nick of New Edge
Wealth with stocks bouncing [music]
back. James Picariello of BNP Paribas
with a bearish outlook on Tesla ahead of
earnings. Plus, we'll catch up with
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research on the
path ahead for interest rates following
Kevin Walsh's Senate hearing. We begin
this hour with stocks recovering as
President Trump extends the ceasefire
with Iran. Brian Nick of New Edge Wealth
writes in the following, "We're
impressed but no longer shocked by risk
assets resilience in the face of
unprecedented geopolitical uncertainty."
Brian joins us now for more. Brian, good
morning. Morning. Market's moved on. Is
it time to move on?
Our clients certainly think so. We talk
to our advisors every day. Our clients
were asking throughout March and the
beginning of April about buying the
dips.
Um people have gotten used to not just a
V-shape recovery in markets, but these
sort of check mark shape recoveries
where we didn't really see this before.
V-shape on the way down and even faster
recovery on the way up. There is a an
acute fear of missing out. Uh and I
think it's tied back to what's going on
with policy. This is an administration
that uses the stock market as a
barometer for success in a way that no
previous administration has done very
publicly, very openly. And we think with
some reason. Stocks are a leading
indicator for the economy. They don't
want to see this market go down. They
understand what's supporting the economy
at this point, which is consumers who
have become very wealthy with the stock
market uh doing what it's done over the
last 3 years and a desire to not see
that evaporate.
>> That line, stocks are a leading
indicator of this economy. You think
it's the most powerful
leading indicator for this economy?
>> It's literally been in the Conference
Board's index longer than any other
indicator. The S&P 500 has been in there
since the '40s. Uh and this is, you
know, a time and time again, all these
other indicators, the ISM, consumer
confidence is telling you that the
world's coming to an end, but the stock
market has been the most accurate
indicator of where the economy is going
in the next 6 to 9 months. Financial
conditions have eased. The data is okay.
The outlook for earnings is good, you
put that all together, it's hard to
fight this market. What you just said
about attitudes towards this market.
Savita Subramanian at Bank of America
said something similar. The question we
used to get, should I wait for a
pullback to buy the S&P? The comment we
get now, I don't want to sell the S&P
because I might have to buy later at a
much higher price. How deeply embedded
is that investor attitude in America?
The other thing about selling is people
don't want to realize the capital gains.
This is one of the things we talk about
almost more than any other issue. It's
like, think about all these embedded
gains, people who have been riding up
even in an index fund, that don't want
to sell and be caught wrong for two
reasons. One, because they realize the
capital gains, and two, because they
sold at the wrong time. That's a very
compelling reason not to get out of
stocks. And for people who are looking
for opportunities to get in, any kind of
three or five percent pullback is, you
know, taking care of that fear of
missing out that have been crippling
people and making them stay on the
sidelines for probably too long at this
point. But if the capital gains one of
the reason why people don't want to
sell, is that really a good barometer of
where the economy is? Well,
we talk about this all the time. The
alternative to to paying capital gains
is to wait for the market to go down,
right? And then that obviously not what
people are looking to do. They don't
want to pay fewer capital gains because
the market has fallen. But the
underlying demand and the faith in the
AI story, and the broader US economic
ability to kind of weather this energy
shock, um
we we haven't really seen
not even panic, we haven't really even
seen kind of concern. What do you think
it would take this market to go down
then? Because I feel like everything
since January has been thrown at it, or
even since Trump's first certainly if
you consider liberation day. The last
two years. I mean, you've had these
policy shocks that have given people
adequate permission to run for the hills
after a very good time a very good
period of of of market returns.
The thing that we were worried about in
the beginning of the year was the labor
market potentially acting as sort of
sort of an exogenous variable taking
down stocks. If you start to see
unemployment moving up four and a half,
maybe getting closer to five, we thought
that would be enough to spook the equity
market. We warned people about
correlation between stocks and bonds
going positive again, probably not
something you should wish for cuz it
means that rates are going down and
stocks are going down. Um but that
lately the data there has been better.
We've seen this weekly ADP hiring number
improve every week for the last month
and it's starting to look quite healthy.
If that's true, then there it's hard to
see again outside of something going
even wronger uh with with with the Iran
war and and seeing
equity prices go up even further where
oil prices going up even further, it's
hard to see where that that moment of
panic is going to come from that that
causes people to genuinely this time
flee to It's a really difficult exercise
to go through when you're drowning in
headlines to get yourself out 12 months,
look out 12 months looking out another
12 months.
And the kind of things you'll be
thinking about. When you're looking out
12 months, just have a sneak peek
looking behind you.
When you look back 12 months looking out
12 months, can I ask you this? I'm
getting there. Getting to the question.
Is this going to be an important moment
for you? This war in Iran, this energy
shock, will it be an important moment?
We think so in this respect. The The
momentum that markets had going into the
war was this broadening trade. You were
seeing things that hadn't performed
well. It was actually going back to
around Halloween last year. You were
seeing value stocks perform better. You
were seeing international stocks really
dominate US even through through
February.
We think things may have shifted. The
The sort of the tectonic plates on our
feet may have shifted and we may be back
in this lower growth narrower set of
winners environment.
>> So this is not just a tactical trade,
this leadership that was sinking at the
moment. You think it's more than that.
Yeah, well so it's a tactical trade is
typically when you see small cap and
value outperformance. That's where as as
my colleague Cameron Dawson likes to
say, we're here for a short a good time
not for a long time. Yeah. Um
>> [snorts]
>> That's that's what we saw at in the
fourth quarter of last year and the
beginning of this year. We're not sure
that's that's the enduring story here
and it may be have been the Iran war
that caused people to to kind of take
that story off its axis. It it looks
like now where the earnings revisions
are coming from is more narrow, where
the market leadership is has gotten
narrower, and the hopes that we were
going to get above trend GDP with
softening inflation and lower interest
rates and stronger cyclical force in the
US economy, that may be on hold. So,
we've set the stage for a return of,
let's call it US exceptionalism with
tech leadership.
That's what That's what That's how we're
positioning now. And I know that the
markets have already kind of run a
little bit in that direction, but they
haven't completely made up If you look
at equal weight S&P versus market
weight, equal weight is still up over
the last five or six months. Um
we we'd be betting more on the on the
kind of the this narrowness continuing.
Brian, appreciate your time. Of course.
Well articulated, thank you. Brian
Nickthe of New Edge Wealth on the
leadership coming from tech. I'll tell
you what right now, my screen that's
helping this equity markets go out to
new session highs. Let's give an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more.
Hi, Yahara. Hi, John. [music]
Iran seizing two ships in the Persian
Gulf for what they're calling
violations, Tasnim. The country's
semi-official news agency saying that
IRGC transferred [music] the ships to
Iran's coast for inspection. It comes
after Iranian gunboats fired on a cargo
and [music] container ship in the Strait
of Hormuz earlier today.
United Airlines slashing its full-year
profit [music] forecast due to higher
fuel prices caused by the war in the
Middle East. The guidance coming as the
airline reported better than expected
[music] first quarter results. Lisa will
be sitting down with United CEO Scott
Kirby at 9:15 a.m. Eastern.
And Adobe announcing a $25 billion share
buyback over the next [music] four
years. The company's CFO saying it's a
direct expression of confidence in cash
flows and long-term value for investors.
The stock [music] is up today, but it is
down nearly 30% this year as investors
worry about AI's potential to disrupt
software. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yahara
later this hour. Up next on the program,
the Morning Call Plus, we'll catch up
with James [music] Picariello of BNP
Paribas, looking ahead to earnings from
Tesla, and we'll touch base with
Bloomberg's Ed Morse Lowe in just a
moment. [music] From New York City this
morning, good morning.
The physical has just done its own
thing.
And the futures have not followed.
And so the the differential between them
was never contemplated to be this wide.
So in some sense it's broken.
Right? And it may need to be
reconfigured after this. This next Brent
expiration, if we don't start seeing
that convergence,
then we may be in a position where no
matter what type of news flow happens,
futures may not respond. That was Vikas
Dwivedy of Macquarie weighing in on the
commodity market. [music]
The scores look like this this morning.
Equity futures on the S&P up by 0.8, up
by close to 1% on the Nasdaq. A tech
story [music] in the mix that we'll get
to with Ed Morse Lowe in just a moment.
In the commodity market, Brent and WTI
still elevated, the tension [music]
still simmering. Brent crude at 99, WTI
just breaking through 90, just briefly,
back to 89.97. [music]
So we have the ceasefire, we don't have
a deadline, we don't have really a time
frame when the president is going to be
willing to accept this Iranian proposal.
He is waiting for it at the moment.
Nothing has really changed on the
ground, as we continuously [music]
have been saying for days, except
actually it's gotten a little worse in
terms of the IRGC taking hostage two
vessels. That's the price action. Let's
get you some morning calls. First up
from JP Morgan raising its price target
on Halliburton, highlighting demand
growth. That stock up in the pre-market
by 1.1%. [music] The second call from
Stifel lowering its target on
Birkenstock, reflecting a difficult
consumer backdrop due to the war with
Iran. That stock just about unchanged.
And your third and final call from
Barclays raising its target on TSMC
expecting AI demand momentum to
continue. Let's stick with tech. Sources
[music] telling us here at Bloomberg a
small group of unauthorized users have
gained access to Anthropic's new Mythos
AI model, which the company warns could
[music] enable dangerous cyber attacks.
Ed Ludlow has the latest. Ed, that one's
a shocker, or at least could be. What
are the details?
>> Yeah, it's a shocker in part because of
how this uh group or community got
access to the preview. Uh in the first
instance, this was a contractor with a
relationship with Anthropic, right? And
they used those official contractor
credentials to gain that access. And
Anthropic has confirmed that and said
that the scope of the access was
contained within that. They also
basically uh scrubbed various code bases
like GitHub where you basically
sleuthing, find out where you think the
code base might be for Mythos and access
it. What's confusing for the Bloomberg
audience is that this is being built by
the company, John, as being highly
capable in cybersecurity, being able to
go through very large code bases, find
vulnerabilities, and then potentially
act on them. But it is a general purpose
model. You cannot isolate a capability.
And in the reporting from Bloomberg's
Rachel Metz, there's no evidence that
they did anything wrong with the model.
They experimented with it, but they
didn't use it for some kind of
cybersecurity attack. It's just that it
dates back to April 7th when Anthropic
started the exercise of making it a
very, very limited release to big
technology companies and banks and
trying to keep a very close circuit on
who could experiment with what is a
highly capable model. So, Ed, let's talk
about something I've struggled with
personally for the last several months.
>> Sure. What is real? What is hype? What
is just marketing for the IPO? Now,
let's take Mythos an example. So, Mythos
I'm told I have to be really concerned
about cuz it's potentially quite
dangerous and could expose
vulnerabilities. I'm taking that very
seriously. And they're saying that we
can only let certain people use it with
authorization to work out what those
vulnerabilities might be ahead of time.
Got that. At the same time, I should be
totally okay with the idea that
unauthorized users have got hold of
this.
I'm struggling to square the two. It's
either one or the other. Which one is
it?
>> Anthropic and its leadership have come
in for criticism over a longer period of
time relating to several releases of the
models and how they communicate about
the risks of it. You know, they warn
often about the capabilities of various
models. When I was on stage a week ago
with Mike Krieger, who co-leads
Anthropic's labs, they are the basically
the product cycle team. The way that he
built this was that this is not a some
sort of great revenue exercise. They're
leaving a lot of money on the table
because they are closing a limited
release. There's lots of evidence that
all kinds of industries want access to
this. So, we know what its risks are.
Basically, potentially a bad actor, a
malicious actor, if they got access,
which is hypothetical, could do
something bad with it. But, on the other
side of the coin, and this is why the
Treasury and the Fed's involved, they
want them to have access, those key
financial institutions, core parts of
the financial system, so that they can
use its benefits, its proactive side.
To answer your question succinctly, you
know, is it a marketing exercise? You
know, the the the pushback the company
would say is that they're not
economically gaining from this right now
at the same time as they are trying to
negotiate their future with this
government in the White House. Ed, I'll
leave it there because I think they are
gaining. Because they're gaining because
their valuation in private markets is
exploding ahead of the IPO, but we can
talk about this another time. The thing
that's boosting equity markets right
now, Ed, is Nvidia and Google. Can I get
your thoughts on this tie-up, this
agreement? What kind of deal is this?
Because as soon as that broke, I saw
equity markets gap out to new session
highs. Yeah, so this is really
interesting because to all intents and
purposes,
the other piece of news that came out is
Google has two new TPUs, a training
specific one and an inference specific
one. That puts Nvidia and Google in
competition on the hardware side on the
on the silicon side. On the software
side, it is highly normal for Alphabet
to or Google through its various AI labs
and there are several to cooperate with
other technology companies. Nvidia has
its own library of open-source models
specifically focused on physical AI, but
increasingly Jensen has tried to talk up
Nvidia's software competence in agentic
AI and its partnership with Open Floor
as an example. So, this isn't a
surprise. If you accept that they are
frenemies, right? They are both in
competition with each other on on the
silicon side and on the software side. I
would say if you're looking at the move
in Alphabet, there has been a huge dump
of news which includes a number of cloud
contracts, these two new chips, and the
Nvidia
relationship. It's not exactly clear to
me at this moment, John, which of those
is driving the market in in the
pre-market.
>> it. It's great to have you in New York
and I'm looking forward to the program.
And if you ask I'm going to buy
technology with Ed Ludlow. So, at this
point, it's not just the Nvidia tie-up,
that combination, that deal, whatever
you want to call it. It's also
Salesforce and Google Cloud expanding a
partnership on AI agents. Just a bunch
of news dropping in the last 10-15
minutes or so driving that stock out to
new session highs.
>> Exactly. This is underpinning basically
the US financial market. Everyone is
back to the AI trade, the AI themes
because that is going to be something
that is long-term and pretty much
ignoring what is going on in terms of
the conflict in Iran. Later on today,
we'll get some numbers from Tesla. Let's
talk about that. James Picariello of BNP
Paribas staying bearish on the EV maker
with an underperform rating noting a
quote challenging setup for Tesla.
James, good morning. Morning. What's
challenging for this name this morning?
Yeah, I mean as I think about the first
quarter,
we're about 10% below consensus on gross
profit and adjusted EBITDA.
We know first quarter deliveries and
energy deployments. I Tesla already
provided that and
as we think about the auto business
the growth volumes were up 6%. The
growth was entirely driven by rest of
world. So, the core markets for Tesla,
North America, Europe, China
that was essentially flat. There was
some mid single mid single digit growth
in North America offset by declines in
China and Europe trended overall flat.
So, no major surprise there positive or
negative
um and you know there's a heavy lift for
the remainder of the year as we think
about auto volumes relative to consensus
and even my own forecast. I'm I'm quite
constructive the rest of the year on on
autos getting the volumes getting
better. On the energy storage side
the deployments were down quite
significantly. Down 15% year over year,
40% quarter over quarter. I think that's
going to be a focal point of one of the
many focal points of tonight's
conference call just what drove that.
That's what I'm saying.
>> that I'd get from the bulls right now, I
imagine would sound something like this.
Talking about Tesla and cars
is the same as talking about Amazon and
books back in the '90s.
That it's not about where we are now,
it's about where we'll be and what this
company will be in the future. Does that
not resonate with you?
Oh, it certainly does. I mean, when I
think about my price target of $280
70%
of that valuation is attributed to
robotaxis and Optimus. Right? Optimus
hasn't started commercialized
production, right? Of the humanoid bots.
That happens well, the promise is that
it happens by the end of this year.
And for robotaxis the
park the active fleet for Tesla hasn't
really expanded. It's not accelerating
from the end of you know, from fourth
fourth quarter to now. So, there's you
know, there's a high bar set for the
progress rate and we haven't we've yet
to see it.
In the short term though, do you think
Tesla's going to have to cut prices
because deliveries are low at least in
North America?
Yeah, I think so. Right? Um the $7,500
tax credit went away September 30th.
Uh, demand is not necessarily rich for
EVs in North America.
>> Couldn't this be a good moment for them
though with gasoline prices inching
higher? Yeah, but when we think about
the profitability, right?
Tesla is guiding this year's CapEx at 20
billion. All right, last year they did 8
or 9 billion. All right, so the the full
expectation is for cash burn. What car
should I be excited about? Rivian
mid-size SUV? I knew you were going to
say that.
>> I like the Scout as well. Isn't that the
VW partnership that's coming to the US?
>> That's coming in 12 to 18 months.
>> It's a Scout.
>> Uh, the Scout's not coming until 2028
2029.
>> Oh, really? That far out?
>> Well, I mean, we have an outperform
rating on Rivian. I am quite bullish on
the R2, which which starts to really
ship the second half of
>> What kind of numbers are you thinking
about with regards to Rivian and the R2?
So, for the R2 specifically for next
year, I'm thinking about 85,000 units.
Okay. And where are we now at Rivian?
For the R
total total volume is around 40,000, but
with no R2 as of last year.
>> So, introducing the mid-size SUV, we
could see a doubling in sales basically
for that company. Yes. Wow. Okay. James,
appreciate your time. Thank you, sir.
James Picarello there of BNP Paribas.
You seen that? The mid-size SUV from
>> looking at it now. It does look quite
cool.
>> Looks pretty cool.
>> But you have to wait until 2028. Sure.
Is it 2028 or next year?
>> no, it's No, no, Rivian production has
started now with the Scout.
>> Oh, the Scout.
>> Scout's a different car.
>> sorry. I'm looking at Scout. That's a
new one for me cuz I've I've never seen
these before.
>> The Scout is very cool.
Back in sort of leaning into Americana
heritage and
>> This is very cool, but 2028, I mean, you
can't wait around to buy a car for that
long, can you? No, I'm just saying there
are some things coming on the horizon.
Anyway, let's talk about what's
happening on the screen right now.
Headline crossing just moments ago on
Germany and the outlook for GDP. German
GDP and the outlook from Germany,
they've cut their 2026 growth forecast
to 0.5%
from 1%. So, they've cut their forecast
in half on the war with Iran. This is
the difference between the US and Europe
right now, far more exposed for Europe
at the moment, which is contributing to
a much lower forecast for economic
growth for the year ahead. If you're
just joining us, that forecast is now
0.5%.
It was 1%. It was already low, and now
it's lower. So, this is what the economy
minister had to say according to an
email uh statement ahead of the press
conference they'll be giving going
through some of these numbers and what
they're seeing. The economic recovery
expected this year has once again been
held back by external geopolitical
shocks. The war in Iran is driving up
energy and commodity prices. It's
putting a strain on households and
increasing costs. We're seeing what
Europe dealt with when it came to
Russia-Ukraine. They're dealing with
once again when it comes to Iran because
they import so much of their energy. We
saw also today Rachel Reeves in the
United Kingdom after the inflation data
came out and that pipe uh popped, she
said it is because of external factors
like what's going on in the war in Iran.
>> Every time I hear from officials in
Europe, it sounds so so bleak. ECB
President Lagarde with similar words as
well. Stateside equity futures on the
S&P higher by 3/4 of 1%. [music] Coming
up next, we'll catch up with Stephanie
Roth of Wolfe Research on the path ahead
for interest rates following Kevin
Warsh's Senate hearing. Plus, Yohai is
back with us. She's got your morning
movers. Boeing shares rising after
aircraft deliveries surged in the first
quarter. That stock is up in the
pre-market by 4%.
>> [music]
>> Equities are elevated here by 0.7%
[music] on the S&P 500, on the Nasdaq up
by 0.9, on the Russell up by one
percentage [music] point. This market
taking some comfort from an extended
ceasefire
with no deadline. That extension coming
from the president after the close just
yesterday. That's the bounce in [music]
the commodity market. Brent and WTI
shaping up as follows. Still elevated
and tension still simmering. Brent crude
close to 19960
and another headline about another ship
in the Strait of Hormuz just crossing
this [music] one from the journal. The
journal saying Iran's IRGC fired on a
third ship in the Strait of Hormuz. We
do know that the IRGC [music] basically
took two vessels hostage bringing them
to Iranian shore. We have the ceasefire
Jonathan [music] as you say no deadline.
At the same time, I don't see any
indication that there's going to be a
consensus from the political figures and
IRGC [music] within Iran to come up with
a proposal and a plan to give to the
Pakistanis to show the President of the
United States. So we might be in limbo
for a lot longer than maybe this White
House was hoping for.
>> at a deadlock and that impasse comes
with its own problems and you see those
problems in this commodity market. As
[music] we count you down to the cash
open the opening about 60 minutes away.
Let's get you some morning movers. Yohai
has more. Hey Yohai. Hey John, it's been
a busy morning for earnings and Boeing
is the latest company to report and the
results were positive. Shares are up
3.8% [music]
with cash burn coming in much better
than expected and airline deliveries for
the quarter hitting their highest level
since 2019. That combination fueling a
surge in revenue helping investors to
understand the turnaround [music] story
as it tries to recover. Moving on to the
airlines, we are seeing United shares
[music] still up 1.4% in the pre-market
even after it cut its full year outlook.
But it is this overall optimism in the
market over that ceasefire extension
that is helping to lift the entire
sector. Shares of Delta up 1% shares of
American which reports tomorrow morning
[music] up 1 and 1/2%. And we end on GE
Vernova moving to the upside up now at
7.7%
after a beat and a raise with the
company clearing a very high bar. Shares
have been shares are up 200 some 200% in
the past [music] year due to booming
demand for energy due to AI. John.
Yohana, thank you. That's the tech story
right down the screen.
Which is why you're seeing the equity
market gap out again. And very, very
close to all-time highs on the S&P 500.
That's the US story. The international
story far more tense. Lufthansa cutting
20,000 flights. [music] Germany slashing
its growth forecast to just 0.5%
from 1%. [music] That's 26 to 27.
They're now looking for just 0.9% GDP
growth down from 1.3. This war will have
consequences and those consequences are
being found in Asia and in Europe. Yep.
And the United Kingdom inflation higher.
So, you're starting to see [music]
potentially the consequences and the
scarring happening in Asia, which
already you're telling people to stay
home and there's some sort of
requirements and how late they can stay
out at night. [music] Certain days you
can go actually use cars and others you
can't. And then in Europe, cutting
flights. Telling people [music] use
bicycles instead. And then we're seeing
it in growth projections saying we're
going to This is going to hit us in
terms of growth. This is not a good
place for Europe to be, especially since
they just went through the shocks of
Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
>> Tracking the full update today, week to
week, more headlines for you. Let's turn
to the Federal Reserve. Kevin Warsh's
path to the chair remaining uncertain.
Kevin Warsh is uniquely ill-suited for
the job as Fed chair. I do have a a
disagreement, actually, Senator, [music]
with the president. I think central
casting I'd look older, grayer, You're
adorable. The way you can circuitously
[music]
go around questions and not answer them.
It's it's a skill. Uh unfortunately,
it's not a good skill for the chairman
of the of the Federal Reserve Board. Are
you going to be the president's human
sock puppet? Uh Senator, absolutely not.
>> Are you going to be anybody's human sock
puppet? Uh no. We're talking about Fed
independence. By [music] the way, I
think you're going to be independent.
You have to be. You got to convince 11
other people to vote with you. Let's get
rid of this investigation [music] so I
can support your confirmation. Can we
unpack some of that? Can I just unpack
the that line from Senator Reed?
The way you can circularly go around
questions and not answer them, it's a
skill. Unfortunately, it's not a good
skill for the chairman of the Federal
Reserve Board. It's literally literally
what they do at the Federal Reserve. Has
Senator Reed ever watched a news
conference at the Federal Reserve?
>> That is the point of being not just
Federal Reserve, being a central banker
anywhere in the world. I've literally
had them tell me, even sometimes for
former Treasury secretaries and other
individuals, say, "Well, sometimes we
want to go out there. We don't actually
want to make news. We just need to talk
around things."
>> It's not what we'd like, but it's been a
history of the Fed for a long long time.
As for the senator from Massachusetts,
Kevin Warsh is uniquely ill-suited for
the job as Fed chair. This is someone
who called Chairman Powell a dangerous
man.
Right.
>> Can Senator Warren tell us who she
thinks should be the Fed chair?
>> It's interesting given the fact that
Kevin Warsh, whether you like him or
not, has gotten a tons of warm welcomes
from establishment figures, whether at
the ECB or the IMF, from some Democrats
and obviously all Republicans. So, I'm
not I'm not sure if there's anyone.
Maybe herself. Maybe that's who she
would sign up for.
>> The battle continues, and you might be
right. Senator Tom Tillis holding firm
on blocking Warsh's nomination until the
DOJ drops its criminal probe into the
Federal Reserve. Bloomberg's Mike McKee
was watching the whole thing, and he
joins us now from Washington for more.
Good morning, Mike. What are the key
takeaways for you?
Well, Kevin Warsh is going to be the Fed
chair, it appears, as long as the
administration drops its political case
against Jay Powell.
He has enough support from Republicans
that it doesn't really matter what
Elizabeth Warren thinks at this point.
Most of the people in their string of
quotes there were
Democrats, and Democrats kind of opposed
him. But this was really a hearing that
isn't that much different from the sort
of nomination hearings we've had for the
past few years, given all the
controversial appointments that the
president has made, we've seen a lot of
criticism like that, even worse, in many
of the confirmation hearings. But,
Warsh does leave there with some
questions. Chief among them, as you
mentioned, uh
when does he take over? And that's going
to hang over him for quite some time,
and Senator Tillis made that clear
yesterday that he wants that
investigation out of the way. Then the
question becomes,
what will Jay do? What will Jerome
Powell, the Fed chair, now do if Kevin
Warsh does take over? If and when he
takes over, will he stay on as a
governor, and what would that mean for
the Fed overall? I put this
question that Elizabeth Warren put to
to Kevin Warsh in there, "Who won the
2020 election?" Because it does suggest
that there is some hesitancy on Warsh's
part to be as independent as he needs to
be. And a lot of people may think about
that should he advocate something that
maybe the president is advocating. And
then finally, when he walks in the door,
does he have allies or frenemies there?
He had a lot of bad things to say about
the Fed. Talk about we need a new
framework, new tools, new
communications, we need regime change,
the Fed has lost its way. How's that
going to play not just with the other 18
members of the Open Market Committee,
but with the staff of the Fed there? He
is only one vote even if he is the
chair. Moral suasion is his one major
tool, and does he lose that if he goes
in there with guns blazing? We aren't
sure exactly how all this is going to
end up. Mike McKee, appreciate your
time. Thank you. Mike McKee down in
Washington, D.C. Inflation is a choice
was the key line in the opening
testimony that I think we all sort of
raised an eyebrow at when we first read
it. Shots fired to team transitory, Jay
Powell and Co. That basically they've
been cutting interest rates and
inflation has not been at their target.
They move the goal post, I think Kevin
Warsh would say when he comes out and
says inflation is a choice. This is the
take from Stephanie Roth of Wolfe
Research writes in the following. Warsh
struck a more hawkish tone than we had
anticipated. The one notably dovish
element, however, was his emphasis on
trimmed mean inflation suggesting his
framework may be evolving. Stephanie
joins us now for more. Stephanie, good
morning. Good morning. It's difficult to
draw big conclusions from a testimony
that you know has various different
audiences and it's not just Wall Street.
How are you untangling some of that?
Yeah, so we were looking through the
details, right? Because you're right,
there's there's a broad range of
audience. There's Congress, there's the
president, there's market participants.
The point on trimmed mean inflation, I
think was an interesting one because we
haven't found in his history that that's
something that he has focused on
primarily. However, that is one evidence
of the inflation basket that is running
below core PC inflation. It's running
about 2.3% year-over-year compared to
core PC which is running closer to
three. So it seemed like
an element of perhaps cherry-picking
some of the data that aligns with the
view that he ultimately want to have in
order to convince the Fed to be cutting
interest rates when he actually takes
the office.
>> his first line, which is inflation is a
choice. You just choose what you want to
look at. Right. Seems to be the take.
A focus on interest rates and not the
balance sheets. This opposition to the
balance sheet that I find interesting.
Does he have some company on the FOMC?
And ultimately, what's he trying to
achieve? Yeah, I mean, I think it's
going to be a lot more modest in terms
of what he actually gets done. He He
talked The way he talked about it, it
sounded like it would be a very gradual
move. And you're starting to hear some
more FOMC members talk about, you know,
potentially slightly lower balance
sheet. So I think he will eventually be
able to get something done from that
perspective. And he made, you know,
convincing arguments about interest
rates being a a tool that impacts more
people as opposed to market
participants, which is more tied to the
balance sheet. So that is something he
he will likely make some changes on.
He'll likely make changes to
communication. That was something he
emphasized quite a bit.
Otherwise, he's going to be faced with a
tough situation because he's going to
want to be cutting interest rates and
the focus on trimmed inflation may not
necessarily convince everybody.
>> talked about how he almost wants more of
a I wouldn't say transparent, but frank
discussion amongst him and his
colleagues at the Fed and not all these
pre-prepared remarks when they go into
the meeting room. I imagine as a market
participant that's exciting. Yeah, it's
certainly exciting. It could create a
lot of more volatility on FOMC meetings
because the way he made it sound is
they'll be truly debating in the room
and then they'll come out with a more
unanimous statement. So, he wasn't he
was looking for fewer dissents, but more
debate.
And you might end up with some surprises
at at the end of certain FOMC meetings
that could then, you know, move markets
pretty substantially.
>> Press conference stay or go under Warsh?
I think they stay.
What would it mean if they didn't if
they went and you're a market
participant? I mean, it's a it's a
problem because you don't really get to
hear the the the real insight into what
the FOMC's thinking and get to hear
their their really what their framework
is. And of course, he he certainly does
want to pull away some element of the
focus in terms of media, but it seems
like he's still going to probably keep
the press conferences.
>> Is there certain aspects of the post-GFC
communication apparatus that needs to
change? There's certain elements that
we've seen officials on that Fed be
frustrated with for the best part of a
decade. The dot plot being one. Didn't
hear much of that yesterday, but there
are certain changes I anticipate they
will probably make and it's probably
about time in the minds of a lot of
people watching this program that they
make those changes. Yeah, I think that's
right. And he made a good comment that,
you know, if you if you're if you are
committed to your dot plot, you might be
stuck in your forecast for longer than
what otherwise be the case. And as
somebody who makes forecast, I
understand the idea, but you have to
change.
>> you become married to the forecast.
>> Exactly, but you have to change as as
conditions evolve and it's easier to do
so if you are less, you know, there's
less focus on the SCP. What are your
thoughts about how he's handling the
politics? This sock puppet puppet thing
keeps coming up continuously through
this morning and they're going to keep
throwing that at him repeatedly in the
months to come. I mean, it was very
clear he didn't answer the questions
that he didn't want to answer, which was
a lot of them.
But I think he I think we'll we'll be in
an environment where he will focus on
independence. The question is, to what
extent does he end up
being more consistent with his his own
history of being hawkish on inflation
compared to what the president wants him
to get done. And that's something we
don't really know yet.
>> you believe that's who he still is?
Do you believe that's who he is still? I
believe that's who he still is. And you
you know, his in his in his opening
remarks, it was much more of a focus on
inflation than the employment side of
the mandate. He didn't focus on the AI
narrative, which is something that he's
been talking about more recently, which
would be a solid argument for lower
interest rates. So, that was something
we noted as well.
I think he's still hawkish by nature.
Stephanie, appreciate it. Thank you.
Stephanie Ruhle
of Wolfe Research with her views on this
Federal Reserve and the incoming, I
think we can call him, incoming Fed
chair Kevin Warsh. We're still waiting
for that confirmation.
>> It's incoming. You said it the best
earlier. It's not a matter of if, it's a
matter of when. For me, the most
important takeaway from yesterday was
Senate Majority Leader John Thune
basically saying, yes, the investigation
into J. Powell needs to get in the Fed
needs to get wrapped up in order for
this to move forward, which says this
isn't just a Senator Tom Tillis thing.
This is a Republican large issue for the
senator. That's why there is this small
chance still that it is a matter of
if
and not when. Just this small small
chance. I can't quite get my head around
why the White House is not taking the
off-ramp. That's the piece of it that
makes no sense to me. You've got your
guy.
He's got a lot of approval, not just
from Republican senators, but from
establishment figures in the world of
economics lining up behind Kevin Warsh,
endorsing him, supporting him. You can
have him at the top of the Federal
Reserve. You've got a problem with
Chairman Powell?
I don't want to get into that right now,
but the president's got a problem with
him. He will go away. That's your
off-ramp. And they're not taking it. And
also, this is Congress. This is the
White House. They can have other means.
They can have task force looking into
potentially what they would consider
gross misconduct of funds when it comes
to the refurbishment of the Fed. But,
does it rise to to standard of being a
criminal probe into the Fed, that is a
big question. I'm not sure why they're
not taking that off-ramp. I'm not sure.
It keeps getting put to the president,
he doubles down that he wants to keep
this.
>> began to Pimco talking about the fall,
the fall for confirmation.
The third or fourth quarter.
So, you know what that means? Jay
It feels like Jay Powell forever. And
maybe if you're a conspiracy theorist,
you think if this White House thinks
potentially the economy maybe isn't
going to hold up as well before the
midterm elections Do you want someone to
blame? Let's get an update on news
elsewhere including the war in the
Middle East with the Bloomberg brief.
Yahaira Hasma, hey Yahaira. Hi John, we
start there an update on the Strait of
Hormuz. Iran [music] has reportedly
opened fire on a third vessel in the
waterway. This latest one owned by a
Swiss shipping company. The Wall Street
Journal reporting the ship was [music]
attacked while waiting to cross into the
Gulf of Oman. It follows Iran seizing
two other ships in the strait earlier
today that were brought back to Iran's
[music] coast for inspection.
A small group of unauthorized users
gaining access to Anthropic's new Methos
AI model which the company itself warns
could enable dangerous cyber attacks.
According to documentation viewed by
Bloomberg, the users gained access on
the same day Anthropic announced a
limited test release of the model.
And we are seeing Alphabet shares rising
1.6% in the premarket as a wave of
headlines hit from its Google Cloud
conference in Las Vegas. The tech giant
announcing deeper partnerships with
[music] Salesforce and Nvidia which you
can see there. Um, up as well. Plus
announcing a set of tools to create AI
agents and the latest generation of its
in-house [music] chip. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yahaira thank
you. Thanks for the update and thanks
for this morning. Up next we'll catch up
with Chris Watling of Longview Economics
with stocks rising ahead of the opening
bell and we'll take a sneak peek at the
week ahead heading into the weekend.
[music] Live from New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> You've almost had complete retracement.
So, if you look at just that context of
2 months, you should have just stayed
invested. The idea that you could have
taken off any sort of investments
because of this geopolitical conflict,
be able to add at the whites, ride that
back. I mean, nobody can be that kind of
hero in this market. So, that idea that
you can be cute and add on weakness and
buy those dips, it doesn't happen any
longer. I really enjoy catching up with
Lindsey Royce and Art Hogan. Thanks.
That was Lindsey from a little bit
earlier on this morning. The difficulty
of trading these headlines. Just think
about how ridiculous the last 24 hours
have been. Going into the close, you see
these headlines [music] about Vance not
attending talks in this llama bad. Talks
that haven't even been happening. Then
after the close, [music] 10 minutes
after, the president extends the
ceasefire indefinitely. And here we are,
futures up by 0.6% [music] on the S&P
500, on the Nasdaq up by 0.7%, and the
anchor I think for a lot of people right
now is to look through all the noise and
just focus on one of two things. [music]
Either you're on the path to escalation
or the path to de-escalation. And you
see a president right now committed
[music] to the former,
committed to the idea of de-escalation
and not escalation.
>> He's committed to that idea. He said
that he's willing to have the ceasefire.
He's waiting for the Iranian response.
The Iranian response basically, I think
a lot of people are talking about a lot
of reporting, the president's [music]
talking about have a more cohesive
response between the IRGC and the
political actors, and then they'll be
willing to maybe have another
negotiation. But I find it fascinating
that we have no deadline. Feels like the
first time for this president we have
this open-ended basically ceasefire.
[music]
>> Waiting for a unified response from the
Iranians. He calls their leadership
fractured. They are. And we'll see if we
get that unified response sometime soon.
As we count you down to the opening and
bell, some things to look out for. Tesla
and IBM reporting after the close. Lisa
catching up with Scott Kirby later on
this morning [music] in about 25 minutes
from now, so look out for that too on
the corporate side. On the data side of
things, on Thursday, PPM [music]
PMI data and another round of jobless
claims. On Friday, U Mich [music]
consumer sentiment data as well. For
stocks right now, trading close to
session highs going into the open and
bell. Chris Watling of Longview
Economics writes in the case for a
period of consolidation [music] is
growing. A retest though is not a
central expectation. We recommend
remaining overweight equities. Chris
joins us now for more. Chris, good
morning. Good to see you. Good morning.
Good to see you.
>> I remember in the spring of the pandemic
talking about the retest because the
retest has to happen, right? And we were
debating this for weeks and then months
and the market kept climbing up and to
the right on the charts and you missed
it. Is that the feeling you've got now?
Well, that's such a great point because
I remember the debate very well. And I
remember the time doing analysis of all
major sort of plunges in the stock
market which weren't in bear markets,
just, you know, sharp sell-offs. And how
much pre-pandemic they always retested
and it was almost 90%. It was almost a
given. You retest and then off you go.
And of course since then we've I think
we've had four plunges of sharp plunges,
so I'm not talking about the 22 bear
market, but the August 24 Japanese
sell-off, if you remember.
And of course the the banking crisis in
in Feb-March 23. And none of them have
retested. The structure of the market I
think has changed. What do you think
that's what really interests you?
>> When you say the structure, what do you
mean by that? Well, certainly think the
retest element's changed and there's
been a lot of talk about that. But I
also think the predominance of pod shops
because in the old days we used to talk
about guy risk guys swinging the bat.
You know, where's your You know, where's
the guy that can come and swing the bat
on a You know what I mean? Now, I don't
think those guys exist in pod shops.
They're all stop-loss guys. They're
quant guys. So they flush at the same
time. They're they're all out. The risk
management's all over their positioning.
And I've talked to a lot of global
equities managers, old school, who who
find the behavior of single stocks very
bizarre these days. You know, something
that should go down five goes down 15
and a big cap. Um so, I think the
structure's changed cuz of the pod shops
and the retail trading that's going on
in the market.
>> If there's no retest, then what could
there be? Just miniature pullbacks?
Well, I mean in in a sense if the news
flow really deteriorates properly, it
could you something could happen. I find
this whole thing fascinating cuz we all
know Trump wants out, but no one in the
West really knows what the Iranians
think. We have no idea. I I think
>> their feet. We know that.
>> Well, we don't even know who they're
talking to. I mean I I I mean
and we and of course they don't think
like the West thinks. We don't we don't
know whether the Iranians think like
Hamas think or whether they think sort
of halfway between Hamas and the West.
You know, it's a it's a different
mindset, but anyway, putting that to one
side, I'm all for
don't worry about it, but I think you
might get a consolidation or you might
get a bit of a wobble back to the
200-day.
>> Is the market basically saying we trust
in Trump?
Well, we've just got used to Trump,
haven't we? I mean people call it TACO.
I think I think we should rename it, but
it just doesn't work very well. TAGB
Trump always gets bored. And I think
that's kind of what's going on. I
probably shouldn't say that on American
TV, but you know, he he likes to move on
and TACO's that an element of that. So,
but it's the Iranians we don't know
about, but I suspect the market is
pricing out terrorists. That's what we I
think you can make the case their
tolerance for pain is higher than the
West
given how sanctioned that country has
been for as long as it has been and the
amount of pain those consumers have been
under for quite some time.
>> Absolutely, they came under a tremendous
amount of pressure during Trump one when
it was the maximum pressure campaign and
now they're coming under tremendous
amount of pressure on Trump two. But
it's huge tolerance, but it's also a
different ideology, which is a
completely different mindset that the
West doesn't fully grasp.
>> When you think dying is winning, I said
this repeatedly, when you think dying is
winning, you're not a rational actor.
Yes. And that's the the of people that
you're dealing with in Iran. Exactly.
And I think that makes the thing a
little bit more complicated. And that's
I don't I think that's where the
market's slightly struggling. But we're
clearly pricing out a lot of the tail
risk, and that would be my central case.
That's the US story. Is it different
when you look at Europe, in European
markets? Is it different when you look
at Asia?
Um well, look, if the US is going to go
up, Europe's going to go up. And I
thought what was interesting 6 9 months
ago was the broadening of the global
economy that started to come through.
Now, that's sort of slightly put on
hold. And the oil price spike is really
bad for Europe, so that needs to go
away. But I I my assumption is we'll get
we'll price out hikes in Europe that are
into the curve for for the ECB, and
we'll go back to flat or maybe even
cuts. And we'll resume where we were
before, which is the broadening of the
global recovery at least in the west,
which is good for Europe.
>> And that's interesting because we heard
someone say on this program earlier on
this morning that actually this has set
the stage for narrow leadership and for
people to get comfortable with tech. Why
do you see it differently? Well, look, I
like tech. We're back onto tech in the
last month or so. I think but I think
you want to barbell tech and cyclicals.
Because I think I think the market's the
over It's almost like we've done a gut
Ukraine reaction in in the interest rate
futures market. You know, second round
effects,
inflation's a problem.
>> 2022 repeat? Yeah, but I don't think
that's the case at all. The the western
consumer's pretty soggy, I think, on the
whole. You know, the bottom half of the
US and across Europe. So, actually
there's capacity in these economies. I
don't think we'll get second round
effects, so we can price out these
hikes, get the cyclicals going again.
Chris, it's good to see you. Great to
see you, Jonathan. Great side as well.
It's been too long. Chris Watling there
of Longview Economics. Equity futures
right now on the S&P 500 still elevated
up by 0.6%.
We are poised for more headlines, no
doubt, through today. Whipsawed from one
to the next, but ultimately there is a
ceasefire, and that ceasefire has been
extended. It's been extended
indefinitely. We do not have a deadline.
Remember this time yesterday, Jonathan,
we were talking about whether or not the
talks would take place. We know they're
not taking place, which you think would
be bearish for this market, but an
extended [music] of a ceasefire without
of deadline, that's pretty bullish for
equity markets.
>> Bullish equities, bullish equities as
well by the way. Yeah. Brent still close
to triple digits. Coming up tomorrow,
we'll catch up with Keith Lerner of
Truist, the former Trump deputy national
[music] security advisor, Victoria
Coates, Kristina Hooper of Invesco, plus
Eric Cantor of Moelis. From New York
City this morning, good morning. This
was Bloomberg Surveillance.